Coolpad Dazen 1 Review: The Low-Cost Workhorse

Another week; another Chinese smartphone 
brand. This time it's Coolpad, a name we're already somewhat familiar 
with. Coolpad has been a major OEM player and its designs have ended up 
in India under various names over the years. Now, with e-commerce majors
 providing ready-made distribution and logistics networks, the company 
has joined the long list of those hoping to grab a portion of the 
massive potential for smartphone sales in India.Of course we 
aren't complaining. More players means more competition and lower 
prices. Flash sales go hand-in-hand with product scarcity, so it's 
always good to have more options on hand. The company is hitting two 
strategic price points with its debut products, the Coolpad Dazen 1 and 
the Coolpad Dazen X7. We have the former with us for review today, and 
right from the outset it looks as though things are about to get even 
more interesting in the sub-Rs. 10,000 market.Look and feelThe
 Coolpad Dazen 1 is pretty unremarkable as far as looks go. The 
combination of a black front face and white rear shell has become rather
 common, and so nothing really stands out about this phone. It's 
pleasantly curved and rounded on the sides and rear, though a little on 
the heavy side at 155g. The rear shell has a soft-touch texture that 
unfortunately gets stained very easily and starts feeling clammy when 
you hold the phone for long periods.Things are where you'd expect
 them to be: power button on the right, volume buttons on the left, 
headset socket on top and Micro-USB port on the bottom. The primary 
camera has a small flash right next to it. There's a speaker grille 
towards the bottom of the rear, with Coolpad and Dazen logos filling up 
some of the empty space. The rear shell pops off easily and you'll find 
the two Micro-SIM slots and the microSD slot arranged along the top of 
the battery compartment. The capacitive buttons below the screen 
light up only when touched, so you might miss when trying to hit them. 
Only the Home button is marked with a circle. The earpiece is neatly 
concealed along the top and the front-facing camera is barely visible. Overall,
 this phone doesn't win many points for fashion, but will appeal to 
those who like convenient, no-nonsense designs. We'd strongly suggest 
using a protective plastic cover though. Specifications and softwareCoolpad
 is showing up to war with some pretty heavy artillery. It seems that 
the price and specifications have been calibrated to make the Dazen 1 
compete directly with the Xiaomi Redmi 2 (Review | Pictures). Coolpad 
has gone with the same 1.2GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 410 but 
there's 2GB of RAM rather than the Redmi 2's 1GB. Both phones offer 8GB 
of internal storage and support for microSD cards of up to 32GB in 
capacity.The Dazen 1 has a larger screen, at 5 inches, but the 
same 720x1280 resolution. Other specifications are common between the 
two competitors: 8-megapixel primary cameras, Wi-Fi b/g/n and Bluetooth 
4.0. The Dazen 1 has a 5-megapixel front camera as opposed to the Redmi 
2's 2-megapixel one, but the Redmi 2 supports LTE on both SIMs whereas 
the Dazen 1 doesn't. However, Coolpad went with a higher-capacity 
battery: 2500mAh as opposed to 2200mAh. Both phones run Android 
4.4, and of course we would have liked to have seen Android 5.0 instead.
 Coolpad's skin has a few interesting touches, most notably the ability 
to switch from the default "minimal" mode to a "traditional" mode which 
restores the dedicated app drawer and lets you clean up your 
homescreens. We're beginning to see manufacturers take note of 
individual preferences in this regard, which is great. The 
navigation button layout is unfortunately stuck in old-school Android 
land, so you get a redundant Menu key instead of a quick app switcher. 
The Settings app is segregated into shortcuts and all settings which 
adds an extra step to the process of getting to most functions. There's 
also a useless duplicate set of shortcuts that pops up from the bottom 
of the screen in an apparent attempt to copy the iOS Control Centre. We
 liked the flexibility of the UI. On the other hand, there are traces of
 poor Chinese-to-English translations in the menus. There's only very 
little bloatware which is a good thing because none of it is useful. The
 Cool Store marketplace app refused to work for us despite following its
 instructions to update Google Play Services, while a theme picker 
called CoolShow had only one theme option but it did let us tweak the 
lock screen, alert sounds and wallpaper individually. Another shortcut 
icon called Rock Wallpaper isn't actually an app, but triggers an 
animated wallpaper transition. PerformanceAs expected, the
 Coolpad Dazen 1 did fairly well in our benchmark suite. We recorded 
scores of 20,123 in AnTuTu and 10,633 overall in Quadrant. Graphics 
tests were okay, with a score of 2,670 in 3DMark Ice Storm Extreme and 
9.5fps in GFXbench. The phone did get a little warm when running 
processor-intensive tasks.General performance was also good, with
 no perceptible lags or stutters. High-quality HD video files played 
without any trouble. Sound from the speaker was a bit too soft even at 
the highest volume level, but it was quite warm and full, and didn't 
distort. The battery lasted a very impressive 12 hours, 19 
minutes in our video loop test, which makes us glad that Coolpad chose 
to go with a slightly bulky, heavy design compared to some of its 
contemporaries. With reasonably moderate usage, this phone should last 
well into a second day on each charge. We noted with some curiosity that
 the SIM card slots appear to have been mislabled, so SIM 1 shows up as 
SIM 2 in the phone's software and vice versa. Voice quality in calls was
 pretty average.(Click to see full size)CameraWe were also very happy with the 
Dazen 1's camera performance. Shots taken in bright sunlight had a 
slightly warm cast and were just a little washed out, but were rich in 
detail. Low-light shots were impressive when there was some incident 
light such as a streetlamp, but areas in the shadows were lost. There 
was very little noise, though textures and colour gradients seemed to 
have been lost in the process of noise reduction. Shots looked great on 
the phone's screen but lost a little quality when seen full-size. Even 
so, we were impressed. (Click to see full size)We managed to get some nice depth of field
 effects and we were happy to note that the autofocus and manually 
tapping to focus worked quickly each time. A Pro mode lets you tweak the
 white balance, ISO and exposure compensation using an interface ripped 
off from Nokia's Lumia app. The front-facing camera worked nicely, and 
there's a slider for you to adjust the "beautification" level, which now
 seems to be a standard phone feature. There are a few basic filters and
 settings such as HDR.VerdictCoolpad has put together an 
interesting phone. The Dazen 1 feels much more like a workhorse than a 
fashion statement, and that's fine by us. The camera and battery life 
are its standout features, but there are also no major negatives to pick
 apart. Customers now have one more choice in the red-hot sub-Rs.
 10,000 category. If you feel that it doesn't quite match your needs or 
if supplies are constrained, there are plenty of other options in the 
form of the Redmi 2, Motorola Moto E (Gen 2) 4G (Review), Yu Yuphoria (Review | Pictures) and Lenovo A6000 Plus (Review | Pictures), 
each of which might appeal to you for a different reason. 


Of course we 
aren't complaining. More players means more competition and lower 
prices. Flash sales go hand-in-hand with product scarcity, so it's 
always good to have more options on hand. The company is hitting two 
strategic price points with its debut products, the Coolpad Dazen 1 and 
the Coolpad Dazen X7. We have the former with us for review today, and 
right from the outset it looks as though things are about to get even 
more interesting in the sub-Rs. 10,000 market.

Look and feelThe
 Coolpad Dazen 1 is pretty unremarkable as far as looks go. The 
combination of a black front face and white rear shell has become rather
 common, and so nothing really stands out about this phone. It's 
pleasantly curved and rounded on the sides and rear, though a little on 
the heavy side at 155g. The rear shell has a soft-touch texture that 
unfortunately gets stained very easily and starts feeling clammy when 
you hold the phone for long periods.

Things are where you'd expect
 them to be: power button on the right, volume buttons on the left, 
headset socket on top and Micro-USB port on the bottom. The primary 
camera has a small flash right next to it. There's a speaker grille 
towards the bottom of the rear, with Coolpad and Dazen logos filling up 
some of the empty space. The rear shell pops off easily and you'll find 
the two Micro-SIM slots and the microSD slot arranged along the top of 
the battery compartment. 

The capacitive buttons below the screen 
light up only when touched, so you might miss when trying to hit them. 
Only the Home button is marked with a circle. The earpiece is neatly 
concealed along the top and the front-facing camera is barely visible. 

Overall,
 this phone doesn't win many points for fashion, but will appeal to 
those who like convenient, no-nonsense designs. We'd strongly suggest 
using a protective plastic cover though. 

Specifications and softwareCoolpad
 is showing up to war with some pretty heavy artillery. It seems that 
the price and specifications have been calibrated to make the Dazen 1 
compete directly with the Xiaomi Redmi 2 (Review | Pictures). Coolpad 
has gone with the same 1.2GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 410 but 
there's 2GB of RAM rather than the Redmi 2's 1GB. Both phones offer 8GB 
of internal storage and support for microSD cards of up to 32GB in 
capacity.

The Dazen 1 has a larger screen, at 5 inches, but the 
same 720x1280 resolution. Other specifications are common between the 
two competitors: 8-megapixel primary cameras, Wi-Fi b/g/n and Bluetooth 
4.0. The Dazen 1 has a 5-megapixel front camera as opposed to the Redmi 
2's 2-megapixel one, but the Redmi 2 supports LTE on both SIMs whereas 
the Dazen 1 doesn't. However, Coolpad went with a higher-capacity 
battery: 2500mAh as opposed to 2200mAh. 

Both phones run Android 
4.4, and of course we would have liked to have seen Android 5.0 instead.
 Coolpad's skin has a few interesting touches, most notably the ability 
to switch from the default "minimal" mode to a "traditional" mode which 
restores the dedicated app drawer and lets you clean up your 
homescreens. We're beginning to see manufacturers take note of 
individual preferences in this regard, which is great. 

The 
navigation button layout is unfortunately stuck in old-school Android 
land, so you get a redundant Menu key instead of a quick app switcher. 
The Settings app is segregated into shortcuts and all settings which 
adds an extra step to the process of getting to most functions. There's 
also a useless duplicate set of shortcuts that pops up from the bottom 
of the screen in an apparent attempt to copy the iOS Control Centre. 

We
 liked the flexibility of the UI. On the other hand, there are traces of
 poor Chinese-to-English translations in the menus. There's only very 
little bloatware which is a good thing because none of it is useful. The
 Cool Store marketplace app refused to work for us despite following its
 instructions to update Google Play Services, while a theme picker 
called CoolShow had only one theme option but it did let us tweak the 
lock screen, alert sounds and wallpaper individually. Another shortcut 
icon called Rock Wallpaper isn't actually an app, but triggers an 
animated wallpaper transition. 

PerformanceAs expected, the
 Coolpad Dazen 1 did fairly well in our benchmark suite. We recorded 
scores of 20,123 in AnTuTu and 10,633 overall in Quadrant. Graphics 
tests were okay, with a score of 2,670 in 3DMark Ice Storm Extreme and 
9.5fps in GFXbench. The phone did get a little warm when running 
processor-intensive tasks.

General performance was also good, with
 no perceptible lags or stutters. High-quality HD video files played 
without any trouble. Sound from the speaker was a bit too soft even at 
the highest volume level, but it was quite warm and full, and didn't 
distort. 

The battery lasted a very impressive 12 hours, 19 
minutes in our video loop test, which makes us glad that Coolpad chose 
to go with a slightly bulky, heavy design compared to some of its 
contemporaries. With reasonably moderate usage, this phone should last 
well into a second day on each charge. We noted with some curiosity that
 the SIM card slots appear to have been mislabled, so SIM 1 shows up as 
SIM 2 in the phone's software and vice versa. Voice quality in calls was
 pretty average.

(Click to see full size)

CameraWe were also very happy with the 
Dazen 1's camera performance. Shots taken in bright sunlight had a 
slightly warm cast and were just a little washed out, but were rich in 
detail. Low-light shots were impressive when there was some incident 
light such as a streetlamp, but areas in the shadows were lost. There 
was very little noise, though textures and colour gradients seemed to 
have been lost in the process of noise reduction. Shots looked great on 
the phone's screen but lost a little quality when seen full-size. Even 
so, we were impressed. 

(Click to see full size)

We managed to get some nice depth of field
 effects and we were happy to note that the autofocus and manually 
tapping to focus worked quickly each time. A Pro mode lets you tweak the
 white balance, ISO and exposure compensation using an interface ripped 
off from Nokia's Lumia app. The front-facing camera worked nicely, and 
there's a slider for you to adjust the "beautification" level, which now
 seems to be a standard phone feature. There are a few basic filters and
 settings such as HDR.

VerdictCoolpad has put together an 
interesting phone. The Dazen 1 feels much more like a workhorse than a 
fashion statement, and that's fine by us. The camera and battery life 
are its standout features, but there are also no major negatives to pick
 apart. 

Customers now have one more choice in the red-hot sub-Rs.
 10,000 category. If you feel that it doesn't quite match your needs or 
if supplies are constrained, there are plenty of other options in the 
form of the Redmi 2, Motorola Moto E (Gen 2) 4G (Review), Yu Yuphoria (Review | Pictures) and Lenovo A6000 Plus (Review | Pictures), 
each of which might appeal to you for a different reason. 

