Samsung Galaxy Mega 6.3 review

Please turn off all electronic devices, the flight crew instructs as we 
approach Los Angeles. With a small phone, I might have gotten away with 
ignoring safety regulations. Samsung's new Galaxy Mega 6.3 phone was too 
conspicuous for that.The Mega shouldn't even be called a phone, if it
 weren't for the fact that it makes phone calls. With a screen measuring 6.3 inches (16 centimeters) diagonally, the Mega is more like a small 
Android tablet computer. It shares the tablet's advantages in showing 
more detail in photos and video. Text is larger and easier to read, too.That doesn't make the Mega practical, though.As
 a phone, it's huge. It doesn't fully fit in the pocket of my jeans, and
 it sometimes pokes at my stomach when sitting. It doesn't feel 
comfortable in my hands. I'm unable to grip it tightly because it's so 
wide, so I feel as if it's going to slip out of my hands. Without that 
grip, I also feel that it'll be easy for a thief to snatch it away.A
 friend jokingly said that it was bigger than her head as she held it up
 to her ear. A cousin called it ridiculous. A co-worker pointed out that
 cellphones used to be big, too - in the 1970s.It could have been worse.Samsung's
 Galaxy Note 8.0 tablet has an 8-inch (20.3-centimeter) screen, its 
diagonal length just a quarter larger than the Mega's. But the tablet is
 about twice the size of the Mega, in part because it has a thick frame.
 With the Mega, the screen stretches close to the edge, keeping the 
overall device relatively slim. Held on its side like a movie screen, 
the Mega is about as wide as a dollar bill, but slightly taller.AT&T
 Inc. is selling the Mega for $150 with a two-year service contract, or 
$480 without one. By contrast, smaller phones such as Apple's 4-inch 
(10-centimeter) iPhone 5 and Samsung's 5-inch (12.7-centimeter) Galaxy 
S4 typically go for $200 with a contract and more than $600 without.The
 Mega also costs just half of AT&T's contract price for Samsung's 
5.5-inch (14-centimeter) Galaxy Note 2. It's like getting a bigger 
screen for less. The Mega is only a tad heavier - at 7 ounces (198 
grams), compared with 6.4 ounces (181 grams) for the Note 2. (Samsung is
 expected to announce the Note 3 in Berlin on Wednesday evening.)The Mega is also coming to Sprint and U.S. Cellular. Dates and prices haven't been announced.Although
 I don't see myself using the Mega, I can see its appeal to those who 
are willing to carry along a tablet computer but don't want to carry a 
second device - the phone.The Mega gives you many of the benefits
 of tablets. With the larger screen, I can read small print on websites 
without zooming in, and I make fewer mistakes when trying to click on 
buttons and links. For ebooks, I get a screen size that feels closer to
 a paperback. I see slightly more content when checking email or 
Facebook. I don't see a whole lot more, though. Typically, text and 
images simply get larger to fill out the additional screen space.Some
 Android apps have been adapted to take advantage of the tablet's larger
 screen, but for the ones I checked, apps appear on the Mega as they 
would on other phones. With the Foursquare social network, for instance,
 a map showing nearby friends and venues is squeezed into a rectangular 
banner at the top when held vertically. On tablets, the map is allowed 
to fill out the entire right half of the display.It's a shame 
that the display isn't sharper. The resolution is 233 pixels per inch, 
compared with 441 for the Galaxy S4 and 326 for the iPhone 5. Video looks dull 
on the Mega by comparison.And fans of the Note might be 
disappointed with the Mega. Although the Mega has a larger screen, it 
doesn't come with a stylus, something the Note is known for.I am 
impressed by the Mega's battery life. Despite the larger screen, which 
uses more energy, the Mega outlasted Samsung's flagship phone, the S4, 
in streaming video on Netflix. I got nearly six hours on the Mega, 
compared with nearly five hours on the S4. The Mega is packed with a 
larger, higher-capacity battery - something the S4 couldn't have because
 of its size.As with other Samsung phones, the Mega comes with an
 array of Samsung apps, including ones for translating text, taking 
notes and controlling a TV by turning the phone into a remote control. 
There's also an easy mode with limited options for first-time smartphone
 users, plus ways to perform tasks without actually touching the phone. 
Some of these features can be useful. Others are gimmicky or duplicate 
what comes standard with other phones running Google's Android system.I
 decided to use the Mega to finish reading the ebook "Up in the Air" 
near the end of my flight to Los Angeles. I figured it was fitting given
 that its main character spends his life racking up frequent flier miles
 on planes. But a flight attendant spotted it on my lap and said, "You 
can turn that off now, please."Busted.About 20 minutes later, we landed. I called my brother to pick me up at the airport. For that, I used the smaller iPhone 5.The
 Mega remains a novelty that will appeal to people who primarily want a 
tablet and make few calls. For everyone else, small is the way to go. 

The Mega shouldn't even be called a phone, if it
 weren't for the fact that it makes phone calls. With a screen measuring 6.3 inches (16 centimeters) diagonally, the Mega is more like a small 
Android tablet computer. It shares the tablet's advantages in showing 
more detail in photos and video. Text is larger and easier to read, too.

That doesn't make the Mega practical, though.

As
 a phone, it's huge. It doesn't fully fit in the pocket of my jeans, and
 it sometimes pokes at my stomach when sitting. It doesn't feel 
comfortable in my hands. I'm unable to grip it tightly because it's so 
wide, so I feel as if it's going to slip out of my hands. Without that 
grip, I also feel that it'll be easy for a thief to snatch it away.

A
 friend jokingly said that it was bigger than her head as she held it up
 to her ear. A cousin called it ridiculous. A co-worker pointed out that
 cellphones used to be big, too - in the 1970s.

It could have been worse.

Samsung's
 Galaxy Note 8.0 tablet has an 8-inch (20.3-centimeter) screen, its 
diagonal length just a quarter larger than the Mega's. But the tablet is
 about twice the size of the Mega, in part because it has a thick frame.
 With the Mega, the screen stretches close to the edge, keeping the 
overall device relatively slim. Held on its side like a movie screen, 
the Mega is about as wide as a dollar bill, but slightly taller.

AT&T
 Inc. is selling the Mega for $150 with a two-year service contract, or 
$480 without one. By contrast, smaller phones such as Apple's 4-inch 
(10-centimeter) iPhone 5 and Samsung's 5-inch (12.7-centimeter) Galaxy 
S4 typically go for $200 with a contract and more than $600 without.

The
 Mega also costs just half of AT&T's contract price for Samsung's 
5.5-inch (14-centimeter) Galaxy Note 2. It's like getting a bigger 
screen for less. The Mega is only a tad heavier - at 7 ounces (198 
grams), compared with 6.4 ounces (181 grams) for the Note 2. (Samsung is
 expected to announce the Note 3 in Berlin on Wednesday evening.)

The Mega is also coming to Sprint and U.S. Cellular. Dates and prices haven't been announced.

Although
 I don't see myself using the Mega, I can see its appeal to those who 
are willing to carry along a tablet computer but don't want to carry a 
second device - the phone.

The Mega gives you many of the benefits
 of tablets. With the larger screen, I can read small print on websites 
without zooming in, and I make fewer mistakes when trying to click on 
buttons and links. For ebooks, I get a screen size that feels closer to
 a paperback. I see slightly more content when checking email or 
Facebook. I don't see a whole lot more, though. Typically, text and 
images simply get larger to fill out the additional screen space.

Some
 Android apps have been adapted to take advantage of the tablet's larger
 screen, but for the ones I checked, apps appear on the Mega as they 
would on other phones. With the Foursquare social network, for instance,
 a map showing nearby friends and venues is squeezed into a rectangular 
banner at the top when held vertically. On tablets, the map is allowed 
to fill out the entire right half of the display.

It's a shame 
that the display isn't sharper. The resolution is 233 pixels per inch, 
compared with 441 for the Galaxy S4 and 326 for the iPhone 5. Video looks dull 
on the Mega by comparison.

And fans of the Note might be 
disappointed with the Mega. Although the Mega has a larger screen, it 
doesn't come with a stylus, something the Note is known for.

I am 
impressed by the Mega's battery life. Despite the larger screen, which 
uses more energy, the Mega outlasted Samsung's flagship phone, the S4, 
in streaming video on Netflix. I got nearly six hours on the Mega, 
compared with nearly five hours on the S4. The Mega is packed with a 
larger, higher-capacity battery - something the S4 couldn't have because
 of its size.

As with other Samsung phones, the Mega comes with an
 array of Samsung apps, including ones for translating text, taking 
notes and controlling a TV by turning the phone into a remote control. 
There's also an easy mode with limited options for first-time smartphone
 users, plus ways to perform tasks without actually touching the phone. 
Some of these features can be useful. Others are gimmicky or duplicate 
what comes standard with other phones running Google's Android system.

I
 decided to use the Mega to finish reading the ebook "Up in the Air" 
near the end of my flight to Los Angeles. I figured it was fitting given
 that its main character spends his life racking up frequent flier miles
 on planes. But a flight attendant spotted it on my lap and said, "You 
can turn that off now, please."

Busted.

About 20 minutes later, we landed. I called my brother to pick me up at the airport. For that, I used the smaller iPhone 5.

The
 Mega remains a novelty that will appeal to people who primarily want a 
tablet and make few calls. For everyone else, small is the way to go.

