Lenovo Vibe S1 First Impressions

People go crazy lengths to take a great selfie, and the Lenovo Vibe 
S1 is an ode to the selfie generation. It comes with a dual front camera
 setup - 8-megapixel primary shooter, and a 2-megapixel camera that 
senses depth information. This setup, of course, is not dissimilar to 
what we've seen on the likes of the HTC One M8, but that was on the rear
 camera. Lenovo Vibe S1 brings the same technology to the front shooter.(Also see:  Lenovo Vibe S1, Vibe P1, and Vibe P1m Smartphones Launched at IFA 2015)This
 means that you can take a selfie and using the depth information 
captured by the secondary camera, you can then refocus it any object in 
the image - if you stay awake at night thinking about blurry selfies (it
 takes all kinds to make the world), then you can rest easy after 
getting the Vibe S1. Lenovo has included the usual software tricks 
you'd expect - the software comes with object detector, which means it 
can cut you out from an image taken in Borivali and place you in front of
 the Eiffel Tower, a feature budget travellers will really appreciate.Though
 we are not as selfie-obsessed as some of our peers, we got a chance to 
test the software features of the Lenovo Vibe S1 and they work as 
advertised. The phone sports a run-of-the-mill design but feels solid 
and has a good display. It is backed by an impressive package - a 
13-megapixel camera, a 64-bit octa-core processor, 3GB RAM, 32GB 
in-built storage (expandable by another 128GB via a microSD card), 4G/ 
LTE connectivity (no word yet on India bands support), and a 2500mAh 
battery. The only disappointment is the presence of the dated Android 
5.0 Lollipop.(Also see:  Lenovo Vibe S1 full specifications)The
 Lenovo Vibe S1 carries an international price of $299 (approximately 
Rs. 20,000) but there's no word on the shipping date yet. Note that 
India price and availability details haven't been announced yet. 



(Also see:  Lenovo Vibe S1, Vibe P1, and Vibe P1m Smartphones Launched at IFA 2015)



This
 means that you can take a selfie and using the depth information 
captured by the secondary camera, you can then refocus it any object in 
the image - if you stay awake at night thinking about blurry selfies (it
 takes all kinds to make the world), then you can rest easy after 
getting the Vibe S1. Lenovo has included the usual software tricks 
you'd expect - the software comes with object detector, which means it 
can cut you out from an image taken in Borivali and place you in front of
 the Eiffel Tower, a feature budget travellers will really appreciate.

Though
 we are not as selfie-obsessed as some of our peers, we got a chance to 
test the software features of the Lenovo Vibe S1 and they work as 
advertised. The phone sports a run-of-the-mill design but feels solid 
and has a good display. It is backed by an impressive package - a 
13-megapixel camera, a 64-bit octa-core processor, 3GB RAM, 32GB 
in-built storage (expandable by another 128GB via a microSD card), 4G/ 
LTE connectivity (no word yet on India bands support), and a 2500mAh 
battery. The only disappointment is the presence of the dated Android 
5.0 Lollipop.

(Also see:  Lenovo Vibe S1 full specifications)

The
 Lenovo Vibe S1 carries an international price of $299 (approximately 
Rs. 20,000) but there's no word on the shipping date yet. Note that 
India price and availability details haven't been announced yet.

