Samsung Galaxy A7: First Impressions

Samsung launched the Galaxy A7, its slimmest smartphone yet, in India
 over the weekend, and we had a chance to get our hands on it during the
 launch event in Bangkok on Monday.The Samsung Galaxy A7 belongs to the new Galaxy A-series of smartphones, which, with 
their metal unibodies, are part of the South Korean consumer electronics
 giant's attempt to distance itself from the all-plastic designs it has 
become notorious for. Samsung started along this path with the Galaxy 
Alpha, which launched in India in September 2014.Priced at Rs. 
30,499, the Galaxy A7 is significantly less expensive than the Samsung Galaxy 
Alpha was at Rs. 39,990 - despite offering better specifications in some
 ways. The Alpha's price has dropped significantly since launch, 
however. Apart from a slower octa-core processor, the Galaxy A7 features
 higher-resolution front and rear cameras, a full-HD screen instead of 
HD, and storage expandability via microSD card. It comes with 16GB of 
built-in storage, whereas the Galaxy Alpha has 32GB but no microSD card 
slot. The Galaxy A7 has a non-removable 2600mAh battery which is much 
larger than the Galaxy Alpha's 1860mAh power pack.The
 Galaxy A7 has a larger screen at 5.5-inches compared to the Galaxy 
Alpha's 4.7-inch one, though of course unless media consumption is one 
of the primary usage cases for potential buyers they would probably be 
better served with a more manageably sized device.(Also see:
Samsung Galaxy A7 versus Samsung Galaxy Alpha)As we stated 
before, Samsung's newest Galaxy A-series smartphone is also its slimmest
 smartphone yet, with a thickness of 6.3mm. A thin, tall phone, the gold
 variant of the Galaxy A7 has a shiny gold-dust finish on its rear, and a
 slightly less shiny front panel that's patterned and covered in glass 
that goes right up to the edges. The rear panel features a protruding 
camera lens, flanked by the LED flash and the speaker - a placement that
 doesn't affect the sound output too much when the phone is placed on a 
hard surface. Speaker volume was a little underwhelming, though sound 
quality did not appear to be greatly distorted at maximum volume.On
 either side of Samsung's trademark oblong physical Home button are the 
capacitive backlit Back and Recents buttons that stay unlit and 
invisible until touched. The Galaxy A7's microSD and SIM card slots are 
on its right side, along with the power button, and the volume rocker is
 on the left. The Micro-USB port and 3.5mm audio jack are on the bottom.
 Overall, Samsung appears to have done a solid job with the device's 
build quality. The phone feels deceptively light for its metal-rimmed 
build, though it does weigh in at a relatively healthy 141 grams.As
 with most phones with 5.5-inch displays, one-handed operation is a bit 
of a stretch and largish hands would be needed to reach the notification
 shade on top without shuffling the phone.The screen on the 
Galaxy A7 is a Super Amoled panel, standard for Samsung's 
medium-to-high-end smartphones, and has excellent viewing angles in 
addition to the colour vibrancy this display type has become known for. 
Unlike most other Super AMOLED screens in Samsung's lineup however, the 
Galaxy A7's display - even at full brightness - is not as bright as 
we've come to expect. It is still perfectly acceptable and we had no 
problems in a brightly lit room. We were unable to test legibility under
 sunlight, however. The touch response was fine, and we had no 
complaints after spending some time typing and playing games.In 
our short time with the Samsung Galaxy A7, we were unable to put it 
through any synthetic performance benchmarks, but the phone showed no 
lag when we flipped through its interface and did not stutter while 
loading apps or in Angry Birds Star Wars II and Shadow Blade. The Galaxy
 A7 uses Samsung's familiar TouchWiz UI running on top of Android 4.4 
KitKat with no word yet on a Lollipop upgrade.The Galaxy A7's 
13-megapixel rear camera seemed to do a decent job, though we only saw 
output on the smartphone's own screen. There was almost no noise even in
 photos taken in dim environments. However, Samsung's noise-reduction 
algorithms do seem to be a bit excessive, with some of the finer details
 being wiped out. The camera interface is simplistic, though it allows a
 decent amount of customisation and lets you choose your own shortcuts 
from a variety of functions. The front-facing 5-megapixel camera also 
did a decent job, and the phone has some selfie-centric software 
features: Ultra Wide Shot and Auto Selfie.While we'd hesitate to 
make a judgement based on first impressions alone, Samsung seems to have
 done a decent job overall with the Galaxy A7. We would have hoped for 
some more power under the hood at this price. Then again with a slim 
form factor and a metal unibody, some trade-offs were to be expected. 
Stay tuned for our detailed review of the Samsung Galaxy A7 for our 
definitive verdict.Disclosure: Samsung sponsored the correspondent's flights and hotel for the event in Bangkok. 

Samsung launched the Galaxy A7, its slimmest smartphone yet, in India
 over the weekend, and we had a chance to get our hands on it during the
 launch event in Bangkok on Monday.

The Samsung Galaxy A7 belongs to the new Galaxy A-series of smartphones, which, with 
their metal unibodies, are part of the South Korean consumer electronics
 giant's attempt to distance itself from the all-plastic designs it has 
become notorious for. Samsung started along this path with the Galaxy 
Alpha, which launched in India in September 2014.

Priced at Rs. 
30,499, the Galaxy A7 is significantly less expensive than the Samsung Galaxy 
Alpha was at Rs. 39,990 - despite offering better specifications in some
 ways. The Alpha's price has dropped significantly since launch, 
however. Apart from a slower octa-core processor, the Galaxy A7 features
 higher-resolution front and rear cameras, a full-HD screen instead of 
HD, and storage expandability via microSD card. It comes with 16GB of 
built-in storage, whereas the Galaxy Alpha has 32GB but no microSD card 
slot. The Galaxy A7 has a non-removable 2600mAh battery which is much 
larger than the Galaxy Alpha's 1860mAh power pack.

The
 Galaxy A7 has a larger screen at 5.5-inches compared to the Galaxy 
Alpha's 4.7-inch one, though of course unless media consumption is one 
of the primary usage cases for potential buyers they would probably be 
better served with a more manageably sized device.

(Also see:
Samsung Galaxy A7 versus Samsung Galaxy Alpha)

As we stated 
before, Samsung's newest Galaxy A-series smartphone is also its slimmest
 smartphone yet, with a thickness of 6.3mm. A thin, tall phone, the gold
 variant of the Galaxy A7 has a shiny gold-dust finish on its rear, and a
 slightly less shiny front panel that's patterned and covered in glass 
that goes right up to the edges. The rear panel features a protruding 
camera lens, flanked by the LED flash and the speaker - a placement that
 doesn't affect the sound output too much when the phone is placed on a 
hard surface. Speaker volume was a little underwhelming, though sound 
quality did not appear to be greatly distorted at maximum volume.

On
 either side of Samsung's trademark oblong physical Home button are the 
capacitive backlit Back and Recents buttons that stay unlit and 
invisible until touched. The Galaxy A7's microSD and SIM card slots are 
on its right side, along with the power button, and the volume rocker is
 on the left. The Micro-USB port and 3.5mm audio jack are on the bottom.
 Overall, Samsung appears to have done a solid job with the device's 
build quality. The phone feels deceptively light for its metal-rimmed 
build, though it does weigh in at a relatively healthy 141 grams.

As
 with most phones with 5.5-inch displays, one-handed operation is a bit 
of a stretch and largish hands would be needed to reach the notification
 shade on top without shuffling the phone.

The screen on the 
Galaxy A7 is a Super Amoled panel, standard for Samsung's 
medium-to-high-end smartphones, and has excellent viewing angles in 
addition to the colour vibrancy this display type has become known for. 
Unlike most other Super AMOLED screens in Samsung's lineup however, the 
Galaxy A7's display - even at full brightness - is not as bright as 
we've come to expect. It is still perfectly acceptable and we had no 
problems in a brightly lit room. We were unable to test legibility under
 sunlight, however. The touch response was fine, and we had no 
complaints after spending some time typing and playing games.

In 
our short time with the Samsung Galaxy A7, we were unable to put it 
through any synthetic performance benchmarks, but the phone showed no 
lag when we flipped through its interface and did not stutter while 
loading apps or in Angry Birds Star Wars II and Shadow Blade. The Galaxy
 A7 uses Samsung's familiar TouchWiz UI running on top of Android 4.4 
KitKat with no word yet on a Lollipop upgrade.

The Galaxy A7's 
13-megapixel rear camera seemed to do a decent job, though we only saw 
output on the smartphone's own screen. There was almost no noise even in
 photos taken in dim environments. However, Samsung's noise-reduction 
algorithms do seem to be a bit excessive, with some of the finer details
 being wiped out. The camera interface is simplistic, though it allows a
 decent amount of customisation and lets you choose your own shortcuts 
from a variety of functions. The front-facing 5-megapixel camera also 
did a decent job, and the phone has some selfie-centric software 
features: Ultra Wide Shot and Auto Selfie.

While we'd hesitate to 
make a judgement based on first impressions alone, Samsung seems to have
 done a decent job overall with the Galaxy A7. We would have hoped for 
some more power under the hood at this price. Then again with a slim 
form factor and a metal unibody, some trade-offs were to be expected. 
Stay tuned for our detailed review of the Samsung Galaxy A7 for our 
definitive verdict.

Disclosure: Samsung sponsored the correspondent's flights and hotel for the event in Bangkok.

