Philips Xenium W6610: First Impressions

Philips, after a period of relative quiet, has marked its return to the 
Indian smartphone market with three new phones, the S308, W3500, and 
W6610, priced at Rs. 8,290, Rs. 16,195 and Rs. 20,650 respectively. The 
company also launched a new feature phone, the E130, at Rs. 1,960.We 
spent some time with the Philips Xenium W6610 at the New Delhi launch 
event, and here are our first impressions. Please note that we will 
reserve our final verdict on the phone for the detailed review, when the
 Xenium W6610 arrives in our labs for testing.At first glance, the
 Navy-coloured Xenium W6610 that we played with looked like a bulkier 
version of regular candybar 5-inch Android smartphones currently 
available in the market. We can confidently say that Philips hasn't 
worked much on the design aspect of the smartphone.However, much 
of the credit for the 'fattish' design of the Xenium W6610 can be given 
to the massive 5300mAh battery. The smartphone is quite heavy when 
compared to some of the competitors in its segment with a weight of 200 
grams. With dimensions of 145.4x74.1x11.4mm, the phone feels solid to 
hold in one hand.We must confess that using the Xenium W6610 with
 one hand is not easy and we feel that the smartphone is mainly for 
those with larger palms. However, the Xenium W6610 does give a sturdier 
feel in the hands than some Samsung Galaxy and Micromax phones.The
 Xenium W6610 has a 5-inch display that is not very impressive. The 
540x960 pixels resolution display is pretty standard for a mid-range 
phone. The resolution and pixel density of the Xenium W6610 is far lower
 than some of its cheaper competitors like the Micromax Canvas Turbo 
which boasts full-HD display, and the Motorola's Moto G with its HD 
display.In terms of photographic ability, the handset fares well 
in well-lit conditions; however images clicked in low-light has average 
picture quality and were a bit washed out and grainy at edges.The
 Philips Xenium W6610 runs Android 4.2 Jelly Bean out-of-the-box, with 
no word from the company on upgrades. At a time when we are seeing a 
flurry of smartphone launches in the sub-Rs. 10,000 category with the 
latest Android 4.4 KitKat, we are not sure how the dated Android version
 selection by Philips for the Xenium W6610 will be received by 
customers.(Also see: Five Android 4.4 KitKat smartphones you can buy under Rs. 8,000)While zipping between home screens on the Xenium W6610,
 we encountered no lags. We expect that the quad-core processor backed 
W6610 can could handle multitasking with ease.The biggest feature
 of the handset is its 5300mAh battery and is no doubt the highlight as 
well. However, unfortunately we weren't able to spend enough with the 
Xenium W6610 to check the battery performance.You can expect more detailed observations and our final verdict when we review the Xenium W6610. 

We 
spent some time with the Philips Xenium W6610 at the New Delhi launch 
event, and here are our first impressions. Please note that we will 
reserve our final verdict on the phone for the detailed review, when the
 Xenium W6610 arrives in our labs for testing.

At first glance, the
 Navy-coloured Xenium W6610 that we played with looked like a bulkier 
version of regular candybar 5-inch Android smartphones currently 
available in the market. We can confidently say that Philips hasn't 
worked much on the design aspect of the smartphone.

However, much 
of the credit for the 'fattish' design of the Xenium W6610 can be given 
to the massive 5300mAh battery. The smartphone is quite heavy when 
compared to some of the competitors in its segment with a weight of 200 
grams. With dimensions of 145.4x74.1x11.4mm, the phone feels solid to 
hold in one hand.

We must confess that using the Xenium W6610 with
 one hand is not easy and we feel that the smartphone is mainly for 
those with larger palms. However, the Xenium W6610 does give a sturdier 
feel in the hands than some Samsung Galaxy and Micromax phones.

The
 Xenium W6610 has a 5-inch display that is not very impressive. The 
540x960 pixels resolution display is pretty standard for a mid-range 
phone. The resolution and pixel density of the Xenium W6610 is far lower
 than some of its cheaper competitors like the Micromax Canvas Turbo 
which boasts full-HD display, and the Motorola's Moto G with its HD 
display.

In terms of photographic ability, the handset fares well 
in well-lit conditions; however images clicked in low-light has average 
picture quality and were a bit washed out and grainy at edges.

The
 Philips Xenium W6610 runs Android 4.2 Jelly Bean out-of-the-box, with 
no word from the company on upgrades. At a time when we are seeing a 
flurry of smartphone launches in the sub-Rs. 10,000 category with the 
latest Android 4.4 KitKat, we are not sure how the dated Android version
 selection by Philips for the Xenium W6610 will be received by 
customers.

(Also see: Five Android 4.4 KitKat smartphones you can buy under Rs. 8,000)

While zipping between home screens on the Xenium W6610,
 we encountered no lags. We expect that the quad-core processor backed 
W6610 can could handle multitasking with ease.

The biggest feature
 of the handset is its 5300mAh battery and is no doubt the highlight as 
well. However, unfortunately we weren't able to spend enough with the 
Xenium W6610 to check the battery performance.

You can expect more detailed observations and our final verdict when we review the Xenium W6610.

