Spice M-5600 FLO TV review

Spice Mobile is known to bring in affordable and user-friendly handsets 
in the market. Working on their existing strengths, Spice has now 
launched their dual-SIM Spice M-5600 FLO TV. The handset is also 
referred as FLO TV and uses Spice mobile's existing Flo Touch technology
 while incorporating a relatively different concept of an inbuilt Analog
 TV. With Android based budget phones stealing the market, do feature phones such as these still stand a chance? Let's take a look.Hardware/ DesignWeighing
 just 110 grams, the Spice M-5600 is light and easy to hold. It has a 
standby button, Micro-USB port and a 3.5 mm head phone jack on the top. 
The 3.2-inch QVGA touchscreen display takes most of the space on the 
front and below the same are three back-lit touch buttons.The 
right hand corner button acts as a toggle button to switch between main 
menu and home screen. The positioning of this button is extremely 
convenient when it comes to user comfort. The back has a 1.3 MP camera 
on the top-left corner and a speaker down at the bottom. Right at the 
corner, is an extendible antenna that is visible only when you examine 
the handset very closely. The Spice M-5600 offers dual-SIM 
functionality with dual-standby. It also comes with a microSD slot that 
enables users to expand the storage up to 8GB.DisplayThe 
3.2 inch display is big enough to do your day to day activities. While 
it is comfortable to use indoors, it is almost impossible to use this 
handset in broad daylight. You would perhaps need to look for shaded 
areas when outdoors.  CameraThe phone has a 1.3 MP rear 
camera that enables you to click photographs as well as shoot videos.  
The image quality is decent for sharing but the video quality at 12 fps 
is pretty basic. The absence of flash makes it difficult to click 
pictures in low lighting conditions. The camera interface also offers 
features such as effects and white balance options to aid photography.  
      Software/ InterfaceThe
 phone comes loaded with widgets and multimedia applications. Bold icons
 adorn the application menu and contain many pre-loaded apps including 
Facebook, Yahoo! Messenger, Bluetooth messenger, News applications, 
Privacy Lock and Yahoo! Weather. It also has an Ebook app that allows 
you to read .txt files on your phone. In addition to these, it also has S
 Apps Planet, which acts as an Application portal. We tried 
reading on the Ebook app, and it indeed had some interesting features. 
The text size is comfortable to read and an auto scroll feature 
eliminates the need for you to keep scrolling through the long texts. However,
 the Bluetooth Messenger and its purpose seemed pointless. All this 
messenger does is send text file to any phone via Bluetooth. Even if it 
can be used to share texts, the whole idea of a "Messenger" is 
misleading with the other person having no method to reply back. Performance/Battery lifeThough
 Spice is touting this phone as a multimedia feature phone; this is 
exactly where we faced the maximum performance issues. The Analog
 TV application, which is a special feature in this phone, gives you 
free access to terrestrial channels like Doordarshan and DD News. Being 
an analog service, the picture quality might not be crystal clear but 
yet it is a feature that not many phones have.To use this 
feature, one needs to pull out the antenna and go outdoors. Yes, the TV 
signal is a problem for your FLO TV when indoors. You need to be outside
 the comfort of your home to watch news on the device. The same problem 
exists with the FM. Even to listen to the radio, you need to extend the 
antenna that you used for the Analog TV. The FM application offers a 
function to record FM. The 1200 mAh battery is sufficient to last
 you a full day with a single charge but that is if you are not viewing 
the Analog TV all day long. You can get online via GPRS.VerdictFor
 the amount that you pay, the device is definitely worth the money. The 
features given are diverse and well supported by the battery backup. The
 elegant and lightweight white body is a positive as well. Though it has
 added an Analog TV app, the signal reception for the same is a problem 
and the antenna that needs to be extended to view TV. Moreover, in the 
current context, antennas have become outdated, so the idea of an 
antenna phone may not appeal to certain consumer groups.Price: Rs 3,099ProsPriceDesignConsBad signal reception for FM Radio and Analog TVPoor display Ratings (Out of 5)Design 3Display: 2Camera: 2Performance: 3Features: 3Battery life: 4Value for Money: 4Overall: 3 

With Android based budget phones stealing the market, do feature phones such as these still stand a chance? Let's take a look.

Hardware/ DesignWeighing
 just 110 grams, the Spice M-5600 is light and easy to hold. It has a 
standby button, Micro-USB port and a 3.5 mm head phone jack on the top. 
The 3.2-inch QVGA touchscreen display takes most of the space on the 
front and below the same are three back-lit touch buttons.

The 
right hand corner button acts as a toggle button to switch between main 
menu and home screen. The positioning of this button is extremely 
convenient when it comes to user comfort. The back has a 1.3 MP camera 
on the top-left corner and a speaker down at the bottom. 

Right at the 
corner, is an extendible antenna that is visible only when you examine 
the handset very closely. 

The Spice M-5600 offers dual-SIM 
functionality with dual-standby. It also comes with a microSD slot that 
enables users to expand the storage up to 8GB.

DisplayThe 
3.2 inch display is big enough to do your day to day activities. While 
it is comfortable to use indoors, it is almost impossible to use this 
handset in broad daylight. You would perhaps need to look for shaded 
areas when outdoors.  

CameraThe phone has a 1.3 MP rear 
camera that enables you to click photographs as well as shoot videos.  
The image quality is decent for sharing but the video quality at 12 fps 
is pretty basic. The absence of flash makes it difficult to click 
pictures in low lighting conditions. The camera interface also offers 
features such as effects and white balance options to aid photography.  
     

 

Software/ InterfaceThe
 phone comes loaded with widgets and multimedia applications. Bold icons
 adorn the application menu and contain many pre-loaded apps including 
Facebook, Yahoo! Messenger, Bluetooth messenger, News applications, 
Privacy Lock and Yahoo! Weather. It also has an Ebook app that allows 
you to read .txt files on your phone. In addition to these, it also has S
 Apps Planet, which acts as an Application portal. 

We tried 
reading on the Ebook app, and it indeed had some interesting features. 
The text size is comfortable to read and an auto scroll feature 
eliminates the need for you to keep scrolling through the long texts. 

However,
 the Bluetooth Messenger and its purpose seemed pointless. All this 
messenger does is send text file to any phone via Bluetooth. Even if it 
can be used to share texts, the whole idea of a "Messenger" is 
misleading with the other person having no method to reply back. 

Performance/Battery lifeThough
 Spice is touting this phone as a multimedia feature phone; this is 
exactly where we faced the maximum performance issues. 

The Analog
 TV application, which is a special feature in this phone, gives you 
free access to terrestrial channels like Doordarshan and DD News. Being 
an analog service, the picture quality might not be crystal clear but 
yet it is a feature that not many phones have.

To use this 
feature, one needs to pull out the antenna and go outdoors. Yes, the TV 
signal is a problem for your FLO TV when indoors. You need to be outside
 the comfort of your home to watch news on the device. The same problem 
exists with the FM. Even to listen to the radio, you need to extend the 
antenna that you used for the Analog TV. The FM application offers a 
function to record FM. 

The 1200 mAh battery is sufficient to last
 you a full day with a single charge but that is if you are not viewing 
the Analog TV all day long. You can get online via GPRS.

VerdictFor
 the amount that you pay, the device is definitely worth the money. The 
features given are diverse and well supported by the battery backup. The
 elegant and lightweight white body is a positive as well. Though it has
 added an Analog TV app, the signal reception for the same is a problem 
and the antenna that needs to be extended to view TV. Moreover, in the 
current context, antennas have become outdated, so the idea of an 
antenna phone may not appeal to certain consumer groups.

Price: Rs 3,099

Pros



Cons



Ratings (Out of 5)

Design 3

Display: 2

Camera: 2

Performance: 3

Features: 3

Battery life: 4

Value for Money: 4

Overall: 3

