Asus ZenFone C (ZC451CG) Review: A Minor Entry-Level Update

Asus was one of the players responsible for upending the Indian 
smartphone market in 2014. After years of missteps entering the 
smartphone space, the Taiwanese PC component giant finally hit it big 
with its ZenFone lineup - the ZenFone 4, ZenFone 5, and ZenFone 6. Each 
of the three served a different market, giving customers plenty of 
choice under Rs. 20,000.Now, following plenty of positive reviews
 and regular appearances in our smartphone buyers' guides, Asus has 
released a new model to refresh the bottom end of its lineup: the Asus 
ZenFone C. Given the number of new competitors in the market, it's good 
to see the company keeping things fresh.Look and feelThe ZenFone C
 is pretty similar to its siblings. The most noticeable part of its 
design is the shiny chin, with Asus' trademark concentric ring pattern 
that catches the light no matter which way you hold this phone. It's 
available in black, white and red. Our black review unit looked pretty 
staid, which should work well for most people. The capacitive 
buttons below the screen are printed on in bright silver, which makes 
them fairly easy to locate even though there's no backlighting.  A 
matching Asus logo above the screen stands out just as prominently. 
There's nothing else to see on the front other than a camera to one side
 of the earpiece. Unlike most modern high-end phones, the screen is not 
bonded to the front glass, so it feels a bit sunken. You might also find
 the plastic borders around the screen a bit thick by today's standards.The
 ZenFone C is pretty chunky and heavy at 150g, but the back is curved 
nicely and has a matte texture that makes it very easy to grip. It's 
easy enough to reach all four corners of the 4.5-inch screen with a 
thumb when using this phone in one hand.The Micro-USB port is on 
the bottom, and headset socket is on top. The power and volume buttons 
are on the right side. The camera lens, flash and speaker grille are all
 in a line down the centre  of the rear, with another Asus logo thrown 
in for good measure.Specifications and softwareAs we 
expected, the insides of this budget phone aren't exactly cutting-edge. 
At the heart of it all is a dual-core Intel Atom Z2520 running at 
1.2GHz. This is from Intel's previous-generation Cloverview platform and
 is incidentally the same processor that powered the Asus ZenFone 4. 
There's 1GB of RAM and 8GB of internal storage space.The screen 
has a very low resolution of 480x854 pixels, and its graininess is 
instantly noticeable. The rest of the basics are covered: Wi-Fi b/g/n, 
Bluetooth 4.0, support for 64GB microSD cards, and FM radio. The rear 
camera has a 5-megapixel sensor while the one in front has a 
barely-there 640x480-pixel VGA resolution. There's an accelerometer, 
ambient light sensor and proximity sensor, but nothing else. While more 
than enough for most purposes, these are definitely not pathbreaking 
specifications for a phone at this price level.Asus' offerings 
stand out most because of the company's ZenUI Android skin. It's one of 
the more imaginative takes on Android customisation, with useful 
features all around. The lockscreen has shortcuts to the camera, dialler
 and messaging apps, and also shows the weather, alarm status and a neat
 timeline of upcoming calendar events. You can choose different views 
within the app drawer, and even resize the grid and hide unwanted icons.There
 are quite a few preloaded apps. Share Link and Party Link give you 
different ways of sharing content such as photos and contacts between 
users. Remote Link and PC Link also offer somewhat overlapping features,
 letting you control a PC from your smartphone. Omlet Chat is a popular 
messaging application, Zinio lets you read digital magazines, and 
SuperNote lets you create notes with pictures and other annotations. 
AudioWizard and Splendid let you tweak the ZenFone C's audio and screen 
respectively. Power Saver automatically changes the screen brightness 
for certain apps and tasks, and Clean Master lets you clear out junk 
files and scan for malware. There's even more, and it verges on 
unnecessary clutter.PerformanceWe were satisfied with the 
performance of the ZenFone C, keeping in mind its low-budget 
positioning. We didn't face any slowdowns in day-to-day usage, but the 
low amount of available internal storage space, likely due to Asus' 
software bloat, became apparent fairly quickly. We also found that some 
of the popup hints, which were meant to be helpful, were in fact 
confusing because of poor translations from Chinese to English.The
 screen is not very good, in terms of resolution and overall quality. 
Colours are dull and viewing angles aren't all that great. Reflections 
are harsh, especially under sunlight. Benchmark results were in 
line with what we've seen from other recently launched phones at this 
price level. The ZenFone C gave us scores of 19,088 in AnTuTu and 5,477 
overall in Quadrant. Intel's smartphone SoCs have had a slight advantage
 in terms of graphics processing, and we saw pretty good scores of 15fps
 in GFXbench and 5,197 points in 3DMark's Ice Storm test. These could 
also be attributed to the low-res screen which doesn't take much effort 
to fill up.The scores were slightly lower than those we recorded 
with the ZenFone 4 (Review | Photos) and also trailed this market segment's leader, the 
Xiaomi Redmi 1S (Review | Photos). We also felt the device's rear getting a bit warm after
 heavy tests were run.(Click to see full size)The ZenFone C's camera was perhaps the 
biggest letdown we encountered. Photos were just dull, grainy and 
unrealistic. Some phones manage to mask low image quality because 
high-res photos look better when scaled down, but this device doesn't 
have even that leeway. Colours are pretty okay in sunlight but 
compression is way too high and details are missing, so textures are 
just lost. Only objects that are right in the foreground are captured 
with any degree of accuracy.  You can completely forget about using this
 camera after dark, unless you're a fan of extreme blur effects. Shots 
taken even on well-lit roads came out without any definition whatsoever,
 and the less said about indoor shots, the better. Video clips 
taken at 1080p did not look like they had been shot in high-definition 
at all. Colours were dull and everything was unclear. At least it didn't
 stutter, though. The front camera is no good for any photos you might 
want to share or preserve - use it only for video chatting if an urgent 
need arises.(Click to see full size)Interestingly, the ZenFone C managed all our video 
test clips without any hiccups, including 1080p samples in multiple 
formats and compression levels. On the other hand, the speaker on the 
rear is loud and clear even when the phone is lying on a table. 
Everything from EDM to classical music came out sounding really good. 
Sadly, Asus doesn't include a headset in the box.Call quality was
 pretty good, and we had no complaints. The battery lasted just 6 hours,
 5 minutes in our video loop test, which is the bare minimum we would 
consider acceptable these days. Don't expect to get any more than one 
day of even moderate usage with each charge. VerdictThe 
ZenFone C is somewhat of an update to the ZenFone 4, but isn't very 
different from it in many ways. The larger screen is nice to have, but 
even so, Asus will have to do a lot more to be competitive as others 
release newer and more capable products. The Xiaomi Redmi 1S is still 
the class leader, though its highly restricted availability leaves a lot
 of room for companies such as Asus to be successful. If you think the 
ZenUI might be too confusing, there are also plenty of stock Android One
 devices in the market at this price level. We're expecting other
 major companies to refresh their sub-Rs. 6,000 offerings before too 
long, but until then, Asus continues to offer a product worth 
considering. As long as your expectations are in check and you don't 
plan on any serious camera usage, this is a good phone to buy.  Asus ZenFone C (ZC451CG) in pictures

Asus was one of the players responsible for upending the Indian 
smartphone market in 2014. After years of missteps entering the 
smartphone space, the Taiwanese PC component giant finally hit it big 
with its ZenFone lineup - the ZenFone 4, ZenFone 5, and ZenFone 6. Each 
of the three served a different market, giving customers plenty of 
choice under Rs. 20,000.

Now, following plenty of positive reviews
 and regular appearances in our smartphone buyers' guides, Asus has 
released a new model to refresh the bottom end of its lineup: the Asus 
ZenFone C. Given the number of new competitors in the market, it's good 
to see the company keeping things fresh.

Look and feelThe ZenFone C
 is pretty similar to its siblings. The most noticeable part of its 
design is the shiny chin, with Asus' trademark concentric ring pattern 
that catches the light no matter which way you hold this phone. It's 
available in black, white and red. Our black review unit looked pretty 
staid, which should work well for most people. 

The capacitive 
buttons below the screen are printed on in bright silver, which makes 
them fairly easy to locate even though there's no backlighting.  A 
matching Asus logo above the screen stands out just as prominently. 
There's nothing else to see on the front other than a camera to one side
 of the earpiece. Unlike most modern high-end phones, the screen is not 
bonded to the front glass, so it feels a bit sunken. You might also find
 the plastic borders around the screen a bit thick by today's standards.

The
 ZenFone C is pretty chunky and heavy at 150g, but the back is curved 
nicely and has a matte texture that makes it very easy to grip. It's 
easy enough to reach all four corners of the 4.5-inch screen with a 
thumb when using this phone in one hand.

The Micro-USB port is on 
the bottom, and headset socket is on top. The power and volume buttons 
are on the right side. The camera lens, flash and speaker grille are all
 in a line down the centre  of the rear, with another Asus logo thrown 
in for good measure.

Specifications and softwareAs we 
expected, the insides of this budget phone aren't exactly cutting-edge. 
At the heart of it all is a dual-core Intel Atom Z2520 running at 
1.2GHz. This is from Intel's previous-generation Cloverview platform and
 is incidentally the same processor that powered the Asus ZenFone 4. 
There's 1GB of RAM and 8GB of internal storage space.

The screen 
has a very low resolution of 480x854 pixels, and its graininess is 
instantly noticeable. The rest of the basics are covered: Wi-Fi b/g/n, 
Bluetooth 4.0, support for 64GB microSD cards, and FM radio. The rear 
camera has a 5-megapixel sensor while the one in front has a 
barely-there 640x480-pixel VGA resolution. There's an accelerometer, 
ambient light sensor and proximity sensor, but nothing else. While more 
than enough for most purposes, these are definitely not pathbreaking 
specifications for a phone at this price level.

Asus' offerings 
stand out most because of the company's ZenUI Android skin. It's one of 
the more imaginative takes on Android customisation, with useful 
features all around. The lockscreen has shortcuts to the camera, dialler
 and messaging apps, and also shows the weather, alarm status and a neat
 timeline of upcoming calendar events. You can choose different views 
within the app drawer, and even resize the grid and hide unwanted icons.

There
 are quite a few preloaded apps. Share Link and Party Link give you 
different ways of sharing content such as photos and contacts between 
users. Remote Link and PC Link also offer somewhat overlapping features,
 letting you control a PC from your smartphone. Omlet Chat is a popular 
messaging application, Zinio lets you read digital magazines, and 
SuperNote lets you create notes with pictures and other annotations. 
AudioWizard and Splendid let you tweak the ZenFone C's audio and screen 
respectively. Power Saver automatically changes the screen brightness 
for certain apps and tasks, and Clean Master lets you clear out junk 
files and scan for malware. There's even more, and it verges on 
unnecessary clutter.

PerformanceWe were satisfied with the 
performance of the ZenFone C, keeping in mind its low-budget 
positioning. We didn't face any slowdowns in day-to-day usage, but the 
low amount of available internal storage space, likely due to Asus' 
software bloat, became apparent fairly quickly. We also found that some 
of the popup hints, which were meant to be helpful, were in fact 
confusing because of poor translations from Chinese to English.

The
 screen is not very good, in terms of resolution and overall quality. 
Colours are dull and viewing angles aren't all that great. Reflections 
are harsh, especially under sunlight. 

Benchmark results were in 
line with what we've seen from other recently launched phones at this 
price level. The ZenFone C gave us scores of 19,088 in AnTuTu and 5,477 
overall in Quadrant. Intel's smartphone SoCs have had a slight advantage
 in terms of graphics processing, and we saw pretty good scores of 15fps
 in GFXbench and 5,197 points in 3DMark's Ice Storm test. These could 
also be attributed to the low-res screen which doesn't take much effort 
to fill up.

The scores were slightly lower than those we recorded 
with the ZenFone 4 (Review | Photos) and also trailed this market segment's leader, the 
Xiaomi Redmi 1S (Review | Photos). We also felt the device's rear getting a bit warm after
 heavy tests were run.

(Click to see full size)

The ZenFone C's camera was perhaps the 
biggest letdown we encountered. Photos were just dull, grainy and 
unrealistic. Some phones manage to mask low image quality because 
high-res photos look better when scaled down, but this device doesn't 
have even that leeway. Colours are pretty okay in sunlight but 
compression is way too high and details are missing, so textures are 
just lost. Only objects that are right in the foreground are captured 
with any degree of accuracy.  You can completely forget about using this
 camera after dark, unless you're a fan of extreme blur effects. Shots 
taken even on well-lit roads came out without any definition whatsoever,
 and the less said about indoor shots, the better. 

Video clips 
taken at 1080p did not look like they had been shot in high-definition 
at all. Colours were dull and everything was unclear. At least it didn't
 stutter, though. The front camera is no good for any photos you might 
want to share or preserve - use it only for video chatting if an urgent 
need arises.

(Click to see full size)

Interestingly, the ZenFone C managed all our video 
test clips without any hiccups, including 1080p samples in multiple 
formats and compression levels. On the other hand, the speaker on the 
rear is loud and clear even when the phone is lying on a table. 
Everything from EDM to classical music came out sounding really good. 
Sadly, Asus doesn't include a headset in the box.

Call quality was
 pretty good, and we had no complaints. The battery lasted just 6 hours,
 5 minutes in our video loop test, which is the bare minimum we would 
consider acceptable these days. Don't expect to get any more than one 
day of even moderate usage with each charge. 

VerdictThe 
ZenFone C is somewhat of an update to the ZenFone 4, but isn't very 
different from it in many ways. The larger screen is nice to have, but 
even so, Asus will have to do a lot more to be competitive as others 
release newer and more capable products. The Xiaomi Redmi 1S is still 
the class leader, though its highly restricted availability leaves a lot
 of room for companies such as Asus to be successful. If you think the 
ZenUI might be too confusing, there are also plenty of stock Android One
 devices in the market at this price level. 

We're expecting other
 major companies to refresh their sub-Rs. 6,000 offerings before too 
long, but until then, Asus continues to offer a product worth 
considering. As long as your expectations are in check and you don't 
plan on any serious camera usage, this is a good phone to buy. 

