Samsung Galaxy S6, Galaxy S6 Edge First Impressions: Curving in a New Direction

Samsung unveiled its latest and greatest flagship devices, the 
Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge, at its Unpacked event in Barcelona on 
Sunday. Despite multiple leaks already giving away most details of both 
devices, especially the design, Samsung had a few tricks up its sleeve 
in the form of new additions and some interesting new cutbacks. We 
managed to play around with both the smartphones at Samsung's booth at 
MWC in Barcelona and have our first impressions of the Galaxy S6 and the
 Galaxy S6 Edge. DesignFrom the looks of it, Samsung seems
 to be listening to its critics and the consumers what with use of 
newer, arguably better, materials on both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy 
S6 Edge. Both the smartphones have all-glass front and back panels with a
 metal trim running along the edges. Samsung adds Corning's Gorilla 
Glass 4 which aids in adding durability to the devices. Unfortunately, 
the use of glass also means that the rear is a fingerprint magnet. In 
our limited time with the devices we noticed that it attracted a lot of 
smudges instantly. Samsung has used soft metal for the trim which 
combined with its chamfered edges allowed us to grip it easily. The 
reduced bezels on the Samsung Galaxy S6 ensures that gripping the phone 
with one hand is not too hard. Add to it, the 6.8mm thickness of the 
phone is a huge advantage as well. The Galaxy S6 Edge quite 
clearly has a more intriguing design when compared to the Galaxy S. 
Unlike the Samsung Galaxy Note Edge (Review | Pictures) display's single
 curved edge, the Galaxy S6 Edge has two curved edges, or a dual edge 
display as Samsung calls it. Swiping across the edges for different 
functions felt organic from the get-go.  (Also See:  Samsung 
Galaxy S6 and Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge: Top 6 New Features)On
 the flipside, the front of the Samsung Galaxy S6 looks quite similar to
 its predecessor, the Galaxy S5, actually. The single rectangular home 
button which sits below the screen still looks the same but Samsung 
claims that it incorporates a better touch-type fingerprint sensor. We 
tried the fingerprint sensor with both the phones and noticed that it 
was much better than what we've seen in Samsung's previous flagships, 
with the one-touch home button all that's required for the screen to 
unlock. The bottom edge of both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 
Edge includes the speakers, Micro-USB slot, 3.5mm jack, microphone, and 
two plastic strips for receiving network signals. This edge looks 
strikingly similar to the Apple iPhone 6/ iPhone 6 Plus, so much so that
 there is no dearth of images doing the rounds on Twitter makes fun of 
it. (Also see:  Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge vs. Samsung Galaxy Note 
Edge)On
 both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge, the power button and the 
volume rocker are placed on the right and the left edges respectively. 
They are easy to reach and have pretty good tactile feedback as well.We
 expect the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge's whacky yet functional design to 
find more admirers when compared to the Galaxy S6's more utilitarian 
approach. Specifications and softwareApart from the 
obvious differences in design, internally both the phones have the same 
set of specifications. They have the same 5.1-inch Quad HD (1440x2560 
pixels) Super Amoled display with a pixel density of 577ppi. Samsung's 
new 64-bit octa-core Exynos 7 processor which uses a 14nm fabrication 
process powers both the phones. Additionally, the Galaxy S6 and the 
Galaxy S6 Edge have 3GB of RAM for apps and services. Interestingly,
 Samsung has decided to go the Apple way by introducing its latest 
flagship phones in fixed storage capabilities of 32GB, 64GB or 128GB. 
There is no additional memory card slot, which might be a bit of a 
letdown for few users. Moreover, the 2550mAh battery inside the Galaxy 
S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge is non-replaceable. Like we mentioned in our 
'Samsung Galaxy S6 and Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge: Top 6 New Features' 
article - we welcome the moves, but will consumers be so forgiving? Only
 time, and sales, will decide.(Also see:  Samsung Galaxy S6 vs. Samsung Galaxy S5)Software-wise
 Samsung claims that the latest TouchWiz UI on top of Android Lollipop 
is lighter and more flexible. In our limited time with the phone we 
noticed that the software felt fairly zippy. Although, we've seen in the
 past that TouchWiz starts becoming slower over prolonged use and hope 
Samsung has managed to rectify the issue.The software inside the 
Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge has additional features for the curved edges. 
Now, one can configure which side edge they want to use to show 
notifications and other information. There is a People Edge feature that
 lets users add five most used contacts to the edge of choice. When the 
phone is sleep mode, rubbing along the active edge can display 
information like missed notifications, time, weather, and more. One can 
also configure what notifications they'd like to specifically see.CamerasIt
 comes as no surprise that Samsung improves the optics of its camera 
modules every year. Samsung includes a 16-megapixel rear camera with OIS
 (optical image stabilisation) and LED flash while there is also a 
5-megapixel front camera on board. Our only minor niggle is that the 
rear camera lies on a slight bump on the rear. Quite interestingly, both
 the handsets come with a faster f/1.9 aperture. We noticed that the 
shooting speeds were much faster than other Samsung phones we've used in
 the past. (Also see:   Samsung Galaxy S6 vs. HTC One M9)Samsung
 has also added a feature where double tapping the home button opens the
 camera app directly. This worked as advertised to a fault. In our 
limited time with the cameras, we noticed that sample images looked 
incredibly crisp with most of the details intact. We'll know more about 
the performance of the Samsung Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge cameras 
once we have more time with the devices. Final thoughtsUndoubtedly,
 Samsung is ahead of the curve (no, this is not a pun) in the smartphone
 technology innovation front. Its closest competition comes in the form 
of the LG G Flex2. Although, the Galaxy S6 Edge and the G Flex 2 are 
unique in their own respect. We are more excited by the prospects of the
 Galaxy S6 Edge. That said, the Galaxy S6 also has a huge role to play 
for Samsung if the company intends to win back its loyal customers and 
make new ones as well. All said and done, this year Samsung's flagship 
game looks stronger than ever. MWC 2015 in Pictures

DesignFrom the looks of it, Samsung seems
 to be listening to its critics and the consumers what with use of 
newer, arguably better, materials on both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy 
S6 Edge. Both the smartphones have all-glass front and back panels with a
 metal trim running along the edges. Samsung adds Corning's Gorilla 
Glass 4 which aids in adding durability to the devices. Unfortunately, 
the use of glass also means that the rear is a fingerprint magnet. In 
our limited time with the devices we noticed that it attracted a lot of 
smudges instantly. Samsung has used soft metal for the trim which 
combined with its chamfered edges allowed us to grip it easily. The 
reduced bezels on the Samsung Galaxy S6 ensures that gripping the phone 
with one hand is not too hard. Add to it, the 6.8mm thickness of the 
phone is a huge advantage as well.

 

The Galaxy S6 Edge quite 
clearly has a more intriguing design when compared to the Galaxy S. 
Unlike the Samsung Galaxy Note Edge (Review | Pictures) display's single
 curved edge, the Galaxy S6 Edge has two curved edges, or a dual edge 
display as Samsung calls it. Swiping across the edges for different 
functions felt organic from the get-go.  

(Also See:  Samsung 
Galaxy S6 and Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge: Top 6 New Features)

On
 the flipside, the front of the Samsung Galaxy S6 looks quite similar to
 its predecessor, the Galaxy S5, actually. The single rectangular home 
button which sits below the screen still looks the same but Samsung 
claims that it incorporates a better touch-type fingerprint sensor. We 
tried the fingerprint sensor with both the phones and noticed that it 
was much better than what we've seen in Samsung's previous flagships, 
with the one-touch home button all that's required for the screen to 
unlock. 

The bottom edge of both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 
Edge includes the speakers, Micro-USB slot, 3.5mm jack, microphone, and 
two plastic strips for receiving network signals. This edge looks 
strikingly similar to the Apple iPhone 6/ iPhone 6 Plus, so much so that
 there is no dearth of images doing the rounds on Twitter makes fun of 
it.

 

(Also see:  Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge vs. Samsung Galaxy Note 
Edge)

On
 both the Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge, the power button and the 
volume rocker are placed on the right and the left edges respectively. 
They are easy to reach and have pretty good tactile feedback as well.

We
 expect the Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge's whacky yet functional design to 
find more admirers when compared to the Galaxy S6's more utilitarian 
approach. 

Specifications and softwareApart from the 
obvious differences in design, internally both the phones have the same 
set of specifications. They have the same 5.1-inch Quad HD (1440x2560 
pixels) Super Amoled display with a pixel density of 577ppi. Samsung's 
new 64-bit octa-core Exynos 7 processor which uses a 14nm fabrication 
process powers both the phones. Additionally, the Galaxy S6 and the 
Galaxy S6 Edge have 3GB of RAM for apps and services. 

Interestingly,
 Samsung has decided to go the Apple way by introducing its latest 
flagship phones in fixed storage capabilities of 32GB, 64GB or 128GB. 
There is no additional memory card slot, which might be a bit of a 
letdown for few users. Moreover, the 2550mAh battery inside the Galaxy 
S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge is non-replaceable. Like we mentioned in our 
'Samsung Galaxy S6 and Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge: Top 6 New Features' 
article - we welcome the moves, but will consumers be so forgiving? Only
 time, and sales, will decide.

(Also see:  Samsung Galaxy S6 vs. Samsung Galaxy S5)

Software-wise
 Samsung claims that the latest TouchWiz UI on top of Android Lollipop 
is lighter and more flexible. In our limited time with the phone we 
noticed that the software felt fairly zippy. Although, we've seen in the
 past that TouchWiz starts becoming slower over prolonged use and hope 
Samsung has managed to rectify the issue.

The software inside the 
Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge has additional features for the curved edges. 
Now, one can configure which side edge they want to use to show 
notifications and other information. There is a People Edge feature that
 lets users add five most used contacts to the edge of choice. When the 
phone is sleep mode, rubbing along the active edge can display 
information like missed notifications, time, weather, and more. One can 
also configure what notifications they'd like to specifically see.

CamerasIt
 comes as no surprise that Samsung improves the optics of its camera 
modules every year. Samsung includes a 16-megapixel rear camera with OIS
 (optical image stabilisation) and LED flash while there is also a 
5-megapixel front camera on board. Our only minor niggle is that the 
rear camera lies on a slight bump on the rear. Quite interestingly, both
 the handsets come with a faster f/1.9 aperture. We noticed that the 
shooting speeds were much faster than other Samsung phones we've used in
 the past.

 

(Also see:   Samsung Galaxy S6 vs. HTC One M9)

Samsung
 has also added a feature where double tapping the home button opens the
 camera app directly. This worked as advertised to a fault. In our 
limited time with the cameras, we noticed that sample images looked 
incredibly crisp with most of the details intact. We'll know more about 
the performance of the Samsung Galaxy S6 and the Galaxy S6 Edge cameras 
once we have more time with the devices. 

Final thoughtsUndoubtedly,
 Samsung is ahead of the curve (no, this is not a pun) in the smartphone
 technology innovation front. Its closest competition comes in the form 
of the LG G Flex2. Although, the Galaxy S6 Edge and the G Flex 2 are 
unique in their own respect. We are more excited by the prospects of the
 Galaxy S6 Edge. That said, the Galaxy S6 also has a huge role to play 
for Samsung if the company intends to win back its loyal customers and 
make new ones as well. All said and done, this year Samsung's flagship 
game looks stronger than ever.

