Xolo Win Q900s Review: Windows Phone 8.1 With a Local Twist

Microsoft really hasn't had much success with its Windows Phone platform
 in the four years since its launch. Despite some neat tricks a very 
unique look, Windows is in no way a direct threat to Android or even iOS
 at this point. The problem has been an inability to build up momentum -
 customers haven't exactly rushed to stores to buy them, developers 
haven't found enough of a reason to invest time and energy in creating 
apps, and even the original hardware vendors seem to have lost steam.In
 fact Windows Phone is almost synonymous with Nokia and its colourful 
Lumia line - Samsung and HTC did launch a few models nearly two years 
ago, but they were never refreshed. It's only now that we're seeing a 
little more variety in the Windows Phone space, thanks largely to 
Microsoft's decision to not charge a license fee for the new WP8.1 
release, and conscious support for hardware that is already common in 
the Android world. Manufacturers can thus give Windows Phone a try 
without spending a lot of time and money - in fact, we're already seeing
 exactly the same devices running Android and WP8.1.It makes 
sense that Xolo and Micromax would jump on the bandwagon in India. Xolo,
 in particular, has had a long history of trying to stand out as an 
innovative yet value-oriented brand. Most recently, it became the first 
Indian company to invest in a completely custom Android skin, which it 
calls Hive UI. In a market crowded with dozens of phones in each budget 
segment, Windows Phone 8 gives the company another avenue to explore.The Xolo Win Q900s (which is in effect a variant of the Android-based Xolo Q900s) is an interesting device and we're eager to put it through our test process.Look and feelThe
 first thing you'll notice about the Xolo Q900s is how light it is. At 
just 100g, it feels like a lot of phones do before you've put the 
battery in them. It's also surprisingly thin - much more so than the 
Nokias we're used to seeing.The second thing that will stand out 
is the lack of a Windows logo on the Home key beneath the screen and the
 usual Back and Search icons that flank it - instead, there's a simple 
hollow circle for the Home button and two dots on either side. This 
seems to be a hedge on Xolo's part so that it can use either Android or 
WP8.1 on the same hardware, but it will be confusing for users. 
Interestingly, it also means there's no Windows or Microsoft branding 
whatsoever on the device.The Q900s is quite slick - we like its 
overall look. The front is glossy black while the rear panel has a 
grip-friendly matte finish. A dark metallic rim runs around the sides. 
Not much space is wasted above and below the screen, which means that 
the capacitive buttons are very close to the device's bottom edge. The 
Back button is the dot on the right, while the one on the left pulls up 
Bing search - this is the opposite of the usual layout, but plenty of 
Android vendors do this as well so it will be consistent for some 
switchers. Actual button labels would have helped a lot.The power
 button is on the right edge while the volume rocker is on the left. The
 camera and flash are in one corner on the rear, and both the 3.5mm 
headset jack and the Micro-USB port are on top. Popping off the rear 
cover shows the two Micro-SIM slots and the microSD slot as well as the 
removable 1800mAh battery. This is a very good-looking phone, and
 it feels great in the hand too. Xolo's recent launches have been 
consistent in this regard, and anyone who considers Indian branded 
phones ugly and cheap should give this device a second look. That said, 
the company still bundles low-quality accessories including the charger 
and USB cable.Specifications and softwareAt the heart of 
the Q900s is a relatively poky Qualcomm Snapdragon 200 SoC with four 
cores running at 1.2GHz and Adreno 302 graphics. There's 1GB of RAM and 
8GB of internal storage space. MicroSD cards of up to 32GB are 
supported.  The 4.7-inch screen has a resolution of 720x1280. Wi-Fi, 
Bluetooth and GPS are of course supported. There's an 8-megapixel camera
 on the rear and a 2-megapixel one on the front. These 
specifications seem well balanced for a phone that costs just a hair 
under Rs. 10,000. We're a little worried that 1800mAh is too little for a
 battery, but the rest of it should do nicely. Windows Phone 8.1 
doesn't offer much scope for customisation, and Xolo seems happy with 
using a boring blue as its default theme colour rather than the cool new
 photo background effect. The homescreen is densely packed with tiles, 
including individual dialler and messaging shortcuts for each SIM card. 
The default layout has three thick columns or six narrow ones - you can 
mix and match tile sizes and change the placement in any way you wish.The
 default layout is cramped and it won't be easy for first-time Windows 
Phone users to learn where everything is - most of the tiles are set to 
the smallest possible size and don't have text labels. Oddly, there's no
 camera shortcut at all - you have to go into the full alphabetically 
sorted menu to find it. Windows Phone 8.1 introduces some neat 
apps and features including Data Sense, Storage Sense and Wi-Fi Sense 
which help you manage space and quotas, see which apps are consuming 
resources, and share information with friends. You can read all about 
the improvements in Microsoft's latest mobile OS update in our review of
 the Nokia Lumia 630 Dual SIM. We're used to associating Windows Phone 
with Nokia, so the absence of Nokia's usual apps and improvements is 
very noticeable. The default camera app is not as nice as Nokia's, and 
there's no sign of Here Maps or MixRadio. Microsoft's own Office, 
OneDrive, Skype, and Bing apps are accounted for, but Xolo's only 
addition is a Xolo Care app which shows a few basic details of the 
device and has shortcuts to the company's phone, SMS and email support 
lines.PerformanceWe had mixed experiences with the Xolo 
Q900s. We've never been fans of Windows Phone's excessive animations 
which make every transition feel like it's taking forever, and the 
effect is amplified on this device. The phone occasionally recognised 
swipes as taps, and we wound up inadvertently launching apps while 
simply trying to scroll through the home screen and app menu.Otherwise,
 the Q900s was generally pleasant to use. The low weight really makes a 
difference - it's the kind of thing you'll really notice only when you 
use another phone after using this one. Benchmark scores were just about
 okay; the phone managed only 4.3fps and 10,799 points in the Windows 
Phone versions of GFXbench and AnTuTu respectively which are only 
slightly less than the Nokia Lumia 630 managed.(Click to see full size)The screen is 
sharp, but a little dull. We had trouble playing even 720p video files. 
Audio sounded muffled, and details were not very discernible in speech 
or music. Considering how small this phone's battery is, we were 
surprised to get 5 hours, 28 minutes of runtime while playing a video 
loop. This phone probably won't last all day with heavy usage, which is 
the price you'll have to pay for it being so thin and light.The 
camera takes fairly decent shots. There's quite a bit of noise and 
compression but you won't notice it unless you expand pictures to actual
 size on a large screen. Low light performance is just about okay, 
though we weren't expecting much from a phone at this price level. We 
weren't impressed at all with the video quality, which was too grainy 
even in very good light.VerdictIt feels as though Xolo 
and/or its manufacturing partners in China slapped Windows Phone 8.1 
onto the hardware they had lying around just because they could, without
 really fine-tuning the end result.  There definitely is scope for 
improvement.The Nokia Lumia 630 Dual SIM (Review | Pictures) is the closest competitor in 
terms of pricing, and while it might be well built with a brilliant 
battery, it has a different balance of specifications. You'll get a more
 powerful processor but a lower resolution screen and half the amount of
 RAM. On the Android side of the fence, you could pick up the 8GB 
version of the very impressive Asus Zenfone 5 (Review | Pictures) at the same price. The
 Q900s has been calibrated to look good above all else. It's an 
interesting move and we are always happy to have more choices in the 
market. This phone is a worthy alternative to the Nokia Lumia 630 - 
you'll just have to choose what aspects of a smartphone are more 
important to you. 

In
 fact Windows Phone is almost synonymous with Nokia and its colourful 
Lumia line - Samsung and HTC did launch a few models nearly two years 
ago, but they were never refreshed. It's only now that we're seeing a 
little more variety in the Windows Phone space, thanks largely to 
Microsoft's decision to not charge a license fee for the new WP8.1 
release, and conscious support for hardware that is already common in 
the Android world. Manufacturers can thus give Windows Phone a try 
without spending a lot of time and money - in fact, we're already seeing
 exactly the same devices running Android and WP8.1.

It makes 
sense that Xolo and Micromax would jump on the bandwagon in India. Xolo,
 in particular, has had a long history of trying to stand out as an 
innovative yet value-oriented brand. Most recently, it became the first 
Indian company to invest in a completely custom Android skin, which it 
calls Hive UI. In a market crowded with dozens of phones in each budget 
segment, Windows Phone 8 gives the company another avenue to explore.

The Xolo Win Q900s (which is in effect a variant of the Android-based Xolo Q900s) is an interesting device and we're eager to put it through our test process.

Look and feelThe
 first thing you'll notice about the Xolo Q900s is how light it is. At 
just 100g, it feels like a lot of phones do before you've put the 
battery in them. It's also surprisingly thin - much more so than the 
Nokias we're used to seeing.



The Q900s is quite slick - we like its 
overall look. The front is glossy black while the rear panel has a 
grip-friendly matte finish. A dark metallic rim runs around the sides. 
Not much space is wasted above and below the screen, which means that 
the capacitive buttons are very close to the device's bottom edge. The 
Back button is the dot on the right, while the one on the left pulls up 
Bing search - this is the opposite of the usual layout, but plenty of 
Android vendors do this as well so it will be consistent for some 
switchers. Actual button labels would have helped a lot.

The power
 button is on the right edge while the volume rocker is on the left. The
 camera and flash are in one corner on the rear, and both the 3.5mm 
headset jack and the Micro-USB port are on top. Popping off the rear 
cover shows the two Micro-SIM slots and the microSD slot as well as the 
removable 1800mAh battery. 

This is a very good-looking phone, and
 it feels great in the hand too. Xolo's recent launches have been 
consistent in this regard, and anyone who considers Indian branded 
phones ugly and cheap should give this device a second look. That said, 
the company still bundles low-quality accessories including the charger 
and USB cable.

Specifications and softwareAt the heart of 
the Q900s is a relatively poky Qualcomm Snapdragon 200 SoC with four 
cores running at 1.2GHz and Adreno 302 graphics. There's 1GB of RAM and 
8GB of internal storage space. MicroSD cards of up to 32GB are 
supported.  The 4.7-inch screen has a resolution of 720x1280. Wi-Fi, 
Bluetooth and GPS are of course supported. There's an 8-megapixel camera
 on the rear and a 2-megapixel one on the front. 

These 
specifications seem well balanced for a phone that costs just a hair 
under Rs. 10,000. We're a little worried that 1800mAh is too little for a
 battery, but the rest of it should do nicely. 

Windows Phone 8.1 
doesn't offer much scope for customisation, and Xolo seems happy with 
using a boring blue as its default theme colour rather than the cool new
 photo background effect. The homescreen is densely packed with tiles, 
including individual dialler and messaging shortcuts for each SIM card. 
The default layout has three thick columns or six narrow ones - you can 
mix and match tile sizes and change the placement in any way you wish.

The
 default layout is cramped and it won't be easy for first-time Windows 
Phone users to learn where everything is - most of the tiles are set to 
the smallest possible size and don't have text labels. Oddly, there's no
 camera shortcut at all - you have to go into the full alphabetically 
sorted menu to find it. 

Windows Phone 8.1 introduces some neat 
apps and features including Data Sense, Storage Sense and Wi-Fi Sense 
which help you manage space and quotas, see which apps are consuming 
resources, and share information with friends. You can read all about 
the improvements in Microsoft's latest mobile OS update in our review of
 the Nokia Lumia 630 Dual SIM. 

We're used to associating Windows Phone 
with Nokia, so the absence of Nokia's usual apps and improvements is 
very noticeable. The default camera app is not as nice as Nokia's, and 
there's no sign of Here Maps or MixRadio. Microsoft's own Office, 
OneDrive, Skype, and Bing apps are accounted for, but Xolo's only 
addition is a Xolo Care app which shows a few basic details of the 
device and has shortcuts to the company's phone, SMS and email support 
lines.

PerformanceWe had mixed experiences with the Xolo 
Q900s. We've never been fans of Windows Phone's excessive animations 
which make every transition feel like it's taking forever, and the 
effect is amplified on this device. The phone occasionally recognised 
swipes as taps, and we wound up inadvertently launching apps while 
simply trying to scroll through the home screen and app menu.

Otherwise,
 the Q900s was generally pleasant to use. The low weight really makes a 
difference - it's the kind of thing you'll really notice only when you 
use another phone after using this one. Benchmark scores were just about
 okay; the phone managed only 4.3fps and 10,799 points in the Windows 
Phone versions of GFXbench and AnTuTu respectively which are only 
slightly less than the Nokia Lumia 630 managed.

(Click to see full size)

The screen is 
sharp, but a little dull. We had trouble playing even 720p video files. 
Audio sounded muffled, and details were not very discernible in speech 
or music. Considering how small this phone's battery is, we were 
surprised to get 5 hours, 28 minutes of runtime while playing a video 
loop. This phone probably won't last all day with heavy usage, which is 
the price you'll have to pay for it being so thin and light.

The 
camera takes fairly decent shots. There's quite a bit of noise and 
compression but you won't notice it unless you expand pictures to actual
 size on a large screen. Low light performance is just about okay, 
though we weren't expecting much from a phone at this price level. We 
weren't impressed at all with the video quality, which was too grainy 
even in very good light.

VerdictIt feels as though Xolo 
and/or its manufacturing partners in China slapped Windows Phone 8.1 
onto the hardware they had lying around just because they could, without
 really fine-tuning the end result.  There definitely is scope for 
improvement.

The Nokia Lumia 630 Dual SIM (Review | Pictures) is the closest competitor in 
terms of pricing, and while it might be well built with a brilliant 
battery, it has a different balance of specifications. You'll get a more
 powerful processor but a lower resolution screen and half the amount of
 RAM. On the Android side of the fence, you could pick up the 8GB 
version of the very impressive Asus Zenfone 5 (Review | Pictures) at the same price. 

The
 Q900s has been calibrated to look good above all else. It's an 
interesting move and we are always happy to have more choices in the 
market. This phone is a worthy alternative to the Nokia Lumia 630 - 
you'll just have to choose what aspects of a smartphone are more 
important to you.

