Xiaomi Redmi Note and Redmi Note 4G: First Impressions

Xiaomi on Monday launched the Redmi 
Note and Redmi Note 4G phablets in India. The Xiaomi Redmi Note is 
priced at Rs. 8,999 and will be sold through the company's online retail
 partner Flipkart in India. Flash sale registrations will start from 
November 25 at 6pm IST, and the first sale will happen on December 2, 
similar to way the Xiaomi Mi 3 and Redmi 1S have been sold so far.On
 the other hand, the Xiaomi Redmi Note 4G will be sold by Filpkart as 
well as at 100 Airtel exclusive stores in six cities - Bengaluru, 
Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Mumbai - but its launch is 
slated for the second half of December. Even though it will be available
 at physical stores, consumers will need to register on Airtel's website
 in advance and only those who win invitations from the company will be 
able to pick one up in person.Xiaomi says that the 4G variant is specifically made for India, and it supports FDD LTE band 3 and TDD LTE band 40.Both
 the Redmi Note and Redmi Note 4G look the same, and there is no 
difference whatsoever from the outside. Upfront, both smartphones 
feature 5.5-inch HD (720x1280-pixel) IPS LCD displays with Corning 
Gorilla Glass 3 protection. Notably, Xiaomi offers the Redmi Note in some 
regions without protective glass. The screens appear 
vibrant and offer good sunlight legibility at full brightness. The rear 
panels have a glossy finish, which makes them prone to fingerprints. The
 devices feel very slippery, though their rounded edges still let you 
get a good grip, and they sit well in your palm.The two phablet 
smartphones - Redmi Note and Redmi Note 4G - performed well in our 
limited time with the device. We didn't encounter any lags or crashes 
during that time. Overall the smartphones appeared very well optimised 
with 2GB of RAM on both, though the Redmi Note packs a 1.7 GHz octa-core
 MediaTek processor, while the Redmi Note 4G runs on a quad-core 1.6GHz 
Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 CPU.The
 Redmi Note is a dual-SIM (GSM+GSM) device that runs Android 4.2.2 Jelly
 Bean and the Redmi Note 4G is a single-SIM device with Android 4.4.2 
KitKat. Though Xiaomi has not had time to roll out an Android 5.0 
Lollipop update yet, it has indicated that both devices might get it 
soon after the Mi series devices do.The
 Redmi Note and Redmi Note 4G both come with 8GB built-in storage and a 
microSD card slot for expansion. The Redmi Note supports microSD card up
 to 32GB in size, while the Redmi Note 4G supports up to 64GB. The 
volume rocker and the power key are placed on the right edge, while the 
3.5mm jack is on the top and the Micro-USB charging point is on the 
bottom. The speaker output is loud enough, and it is located at the 
bottom-right corner of the back.Both smartphones 
feature 13-megapixel rear autofocus cameras with LED flash, and 
5-megapixel front-facing cameras. We tested the rear camera in different
 lighting conditions and the results appeared quite decent, though 
sometime we felt the images were slightly oversaturated. The cameras use
 Samsung sensors, and overall seem to be at par with several affordable 
phones with the same camera specifications, but we will reserve our 
final verdict for after the full review.So far, the 
Xiaomi Redmi Note and Redmi Note 4G appear to offer great value for 
money. In our limited time testing them, both smartphones performed 
well. Apart from the old-school design we hardly had anything to 
complain about. We are yet to review the devices, so do stay tuned for 
more. 

On
 the other hand, the Xiaomi Redmi Note 4G will be sold by Filpkart as 
well as at 100 Airtel exclusive stores in six cities - Bengaluru, 
Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Mumbai - but its launch is 
slated for the second half of December. Even though it will be available
 at physical stores, consumers will need to register on Airtel's website
 in advance and only those who win invitations from the company will be 
able to pick one up in person.

Xiaomi says that the 4G variant is specifically made for India, and it supports FDD LTE band 3 and TDD LTE band 40.

Both
 the Redmi Note and Redmi Note 4G look the same, and there is no 
difference whatsoever from the outside. Upfront, both smartphones 
feature 5.5-inch HD (720x1280-pixel) IPS LCD displays with Corning 
Gorilla Glass 3 protection. Notably, Xiaomi offers the Redmi Note in some 
regions without protective glass. 

The screens appear 
vibrant and offer good sunlight legibility at full brightness. The rear 
panels have a glossy finish, which makes them prone to fingerprints. The
 devices feel very slippery, though their rounded edges still let you 
get a good grip, and they sit well in your palm.

The two phablet 
smartphones - Redmi Note and Redmi Note 4G - performed well in our 
limited time with the device. We didn't encounter any lags or crashes 
during that time. Overall the smartphones appeared very well optimised 
with 2GB of RAM on both, though the Redmi Note packs a 1.7 GHz octa-core
 MediaTek processor, while the Redmi Note 4G runs on a quad-core 1.6GHz 
Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 CPU.

The
 Redmi Note is a dual-SIM (GSM+GSM) device that runs Android 4.2.2 Jelly
 Bean and the Redmi Note 4G is a single-SIM device with Android 4.4.2 
KitKat. Though Xiaomi has not had time to roll out an Android 5.0 
Lollipop update yet, it has indicated that both devices might get it 
soon after the Mi series devices do.

The
 Redmi Note and Redmi Note 4G both come with 8GB built-in storage and a 
microSD card slot for expansion. The Redmi Note supports microSD card up
 to 32GB in size, while the Redmi Note 4G supports up to 64GB. 

The 
volume rocker and the power key are placed on the right edge, while the 
3.5mm jack is on the top and the Micro-USB charging point is on the 
bottom. The speaker output is loud enough, and it is located at the 
bottom-right corner of the back.

Both smartphones 
feature 13-megapixel rear autofocus cameras with LED flash, and 
5-megapixel front-facing cameras. We tested the rear camera in different
 lighting conditions and the results appeared quite decent, though 
sometime we felt the images were slightly oversaturated. The cameras use
 Samsung sensors, and overall seem to be at par with several affordable 
phones with the same camera specifications, but we will reserve our 
final verdict for after the full review.

