Gionee Marathon M4 Review: A New Battery Life Record

Every year, phones get slimmer and every 
year, we wonder why manufacturers don't just shrink the internals and 
use all the space they've saved for bigger batteries. We know there are 
millions of people who wouldn't mind trading a few mm extra and a few 
grams of weight for an hour or two more talktime. When you get to the 
end of a workday and your battery looks like it won't even last through 
the ride home, you know there's something wrong with the priorities of 
the industry.Gionee is one of the few companies that don't seem 
to want to make half their money selling extra chargers. The Marathon 
series of phones, so named for their long-lasting batteries, serves a 
segment of the market that really isn't so niche anymore. We reviewed 
last year's Gionee Marathon M3 (Review | Pictures) model and were fully satisfied that it 
delivered on its promise, although there seemed to be significant 
tradeoffs in other areas. Since the recently launched Gionee Marathon M4
 doesn't have a bigger battery than its predecessor, we're hoping that 
Gionee has improved things in other areas, specifically the software and
 overall usage experience. Phones today cannot be one-trick ponies, no 
matter how appealing that one trick might be. Read on to find out if the
 company has succeeded.Look and feelAt 10.1mm thick and 
176g in weight, the Gionee Marathon M4 definitely doesn't fit the mould 
of current-day smartphones. That said, it isn't much bulkier than phones
 that were considered stylish not too long ago, and the curved rear 
makes it quite easy to hold. The band around the sides is reassuringly 
metal, and everything about the overall finish and construction quality 
is quite impressive. We find that the Marathon M4 is an enormous 
improvement over its predecessor in this regard.The front is 
totally black except for the outlines of the three Android navigation 
buttons, which are done in the modern Lollipop style. You can just about
 see the front camera and earpiece cutout on top. The rear is removable 
and made of a smooth, lighter coloured plastic. It's meant to peel off 
but the clasps are extraordinarily strong and you'll need long 
fingernails or a screwdriver to get it to come loose. Beneath the cover,
 you'll find two Micro-SIM card slots, the microSD slot, and the shiny 
silver battery which isn't removable.Gionee hasn't skimped on the
 box contents: in addition to the standard charger, cable and headset, 
we found a handy USB OTG adapter, a second plastic back with an attached
 flip cover (but a less attractive fake leather texture), an adhesive 
screen guard, and a small lint-free cloth.SpecificationsWhile
 the build quality generally surpasses that of other phones at this 
price, the specifications bring us back down to reality. This phone runs
 on a 1.3GHz quad-core MediaTek MT6735 SoC, which is pretty modern and 
so far uncommon. The MT6735 has four 64-bit ARM Cortex-A53 CPU cores, 
Mali-T720 MP2 graphics and even integrated LTE, all of which make it 
quite interesting. There's a standard 2GB of RAM and 16GB of internal 
storage space. MicroSD support is limited to 32GB, but you can use USB 
OTG storage devices. There's Bluetooth 4.0, Wi-Fi b/g/n and FM radio. 
Indian 4G bands are supported, which is a nice touch. The screen 
measures 5 inches diagonally and has a resolution of 720x1280. The rear 
camera has an 8-megapixel sensor and the front one has a 5-megapixel 
sensor. All of this is pretty unexciting, but there are no glaring 
omissions either. What you're really paying for is the battery.Speaking
 of which, the battery has the same hefty 5,000mAh capacity that the one
 in the Marathon M3 did, so our expectations are already quite high. 
Gionee claims up to 440 hours of standby time and up to 50 hours of 
talktime, which are both exceptional numbers.SoftwareGionee,
 like pretty much all Chinese companies, forces its own UI on top of 
Android in order to stand out and be memorable. This involves a bunch of
 proprietary features and preloaded apps which users might not always 
like. Those who comfortable with Android might want to override these 
choices, but the experience won't be as smooth as it could be with stock
 Android. Amigo UI has lots of nice touches, but there's loads of
 room for improvement. For one, the shortcuts panel isn't in its usual 
place in the notifications shade, but copies the iOS Command Centre and 
must be pulled up from the bottom of the screen. This is especially 
awkward because you have to be very careful not to accidentally hit one 
of the capacitive buttons below the screen when trying to pull it up. 
You also can't get to it from within apps, somewhat defeating its 
purpose. For another thing, there's loads of awkward English everywhere,
 especially in the Settings app. Gionee really needs to hire someone to 
redo its UI translations, because some of the help text is anything but 
helpful.The default keyboard is called TouchPal, and it has a few
 quirks such as popup hints that interfere with typing and could confuse
 users. However, the quick clipboard shortcuts and general 
customisability could make it quite popular.Another oddball 
feature is the Fake Call button, which we've seen in previous Gionee 
phones as well. This lets you discretely trigger an incoming call in 15 
seconds in order to get out of an uncomfortable situation. The phone 
behaves just as if you're actually receiving a call - there's even a 
prerecorded message asking you to send "the files" urgently.You 
don't get a separate app drawer, so all app icons and widgets have to 
live mixed up on the home screens. Gionee does include a customisation 
app called Theme Park which has an icon set similar to the default 
Android L one. There's also an app called Chameleon that lets you point 
the camera at anything, and then picks out three complementary colours 
to create a new theme out of. Amigo Paper is a massive collection of 
wallpapers, very few of which were appealing to us.UC Browser is 
pinned to the dock by default though you'll find Chrome buried in a 
folder if you go hunting for it. There's also GameZone, a mini app store
 for some very crude-looking games and apps. System Manager is a cleanup
 and monitoring tool that includes a handy cellular data counter and the
 ability to cut off network access to specific apps. There's also Saavn,
 WPS Office, Yahoo Cricket, Twitter, DU Speed Booster and Gionee Xender.Despite
 having a huge battery, the phone offers two power saving modes. The 
less aggressive one shuts down background data and kills running apps, 
while the more extreme mode switches to a monochrome mode in which only 
the dialler, messaging app and clock are available. We've seen this idea
 implemented on many other phones, but in this case, a user could 
stretch battery life by several days which could make the phone really 
handy in any number of situations.The included flip cover is much
 appreciated, but it does present its own set of problems. The phone 
knows when the cover is closed and immediately presents a small amount 
of information such as the date, time and notifications, through the 
clear window. There's also a quick shortcut to the torch. Flipping the 
cover open automatically wakes up the phone. The problem is that the 
cover doesn't stay closed, which means the phone tends to wake up all 
the time, and it's really easy to accidentally hit the torch shortcut.PerformanceWe
 didn't feel any lags when swiping around the interface or in apps. 
Multitasking was also not a problem. However we did find that the screen
 wasn't as sharp as we've come to expect, and text did look a bit 
jagged. Viewing angles were decent and we didn't have trouble with the 
screen under direct sunlight. Benchmarks gave us unsurprisingly 
ordinary performance numbers. The Marathon M4 managed 27,742 points in 
AnTuTu and only 9,487 overall in Quadrant. Graphics performance wasn't 
too bad, with 15fps in GFXBench and 3,240 points in 3DMark Ice Storm 
Extreme. SunSpider ran in 1279.1ms. Videos played well and the 
phone's speaker got surprisingly loud without distorting, though music 
wasn't reproduced very well. In real-world usage including a few gaming 
and video streaming sessions, we felt only mild heat on the phone's 
rear. In terms of usability, we were a bit annoyed that the capacitive 
Android navigation buttons aren't backlit. The camera app is 
pretty full featured, though the interface doesn't really expose many 
options until you start tapping around. We liked the fact that exposure 
can be set independently of focus just by dragging the on-screen 
reticule around. There are also filters and several creative modes, 
though the help captions were total gibberish and in many cases were 
arbitrarily cut off mid-sentence.Photos taken in daylight came 
out surprisingly well. We had some trouble with exposure detection but 
colours were vivid, textures were reproduced well even in the 
background, and noise was low. Photos actually looked really good when 
reviewed at full size. Low light shots were also good though clarity 
took a huge hit, noise was a problem, and shutter lag resulted in some 
missed opportunities. (Click to see full size)But of course everyone wants to know the 
battery life score, and it turns out it was well worth the wait. This 
phone lasted a record-shattering 21 hours, 23 minutes in our video loop 
test. That's far better than even its predecessor managed. We were able 
to get through entire days of normal usage including a few games and 
videos and lots of 4G data usage with plenty of capacity to spare. Even 
better, we found that the phone charged surprisingly quickly thanks to 
the beefy 2,000mA charger included in the box - standard 1,000mA 
chargers will work, but will take longer.VerdictThe Gionee
 Marathon M4 truly earns its name. While the battery isn't larger than 
the one its predecessor had, assorted improvements including software 
optimisations have resulted in an overall boost to effective battery 
life. That means this phone could be an enormous asset to those who have
 highly demanding jobs and don't like carrying external batteries 
around, but also to those who could find themselves away from a power 
outlet for days at a stretch.There's nothing that really stands 
out on the spec sheet, but that's okay with us especially considering 
the impressive build quality and overall experience of using this phone.
 If battery life isn't a concern, you can find plenty of other models that are slimmer and probably faster for the same amount of money or less. But this phone is all about the battery, and in that respect it has no competition. We only hope that Gionee will pay more attention to the quality of its UI translations in the next software release.

Gionee is one of the few companies that don't seem 
to want to make half their money selling extra chargers. The Marathon 
series of phones, so named for their long-lasting batteries, serves a 
segment of the market that really isn't so niche anymore. We reviewed 
last year's Gionee Marathon M3 (Review | Pictures) model and were fully satisfied that it 
delivered on its promise, although there seemed to be significant 
tradeoffs in other areas. 

Since the recently launched Gionee Marathon M4
 doesn't have a bigger battery than its predecessor, we're hoping that 
Gionee has improved things in other areas, specifically the software and
 overall usage experience. Phones today cannot be one-trick ponies, no 
matter how appealing that one trick might be. Read on to find out if the
 company has succeeded.

Look and feelAt 10.1mm thick and 
176g in weight, the Gionee Marathon M4 definitely doesn't fit the mould 
of current-day smartphones. That said, it isn't much bulkier than phones
 that were considered stylish not too long ago, and the curved rear 
makes it quite easy to hold. The band around the sides is reassuringly 
metal, and everything about the overall finish and construction quality 
is quite impressive. We find that the Marathon M4 is an enormous 
improvement over its predecessor in this regard.

The front is 
totally black except for the outlines of the three Android navigation 
buttons, which are done in the modern Lollipop style. You can just about
 see the front camera and earpiece cutout on top. The rear is removable 
and made of a smooth, lighter coloured plastic. It's meant to peel off 
but the clasps are extraordinarily strong and you'll need long 
fingernails or a screwdriver to get it to come loose. Beneath the cover,
 you'll find two Micro-SIM card slots, the microSD slot, and the shiny 
silver battery which isn't removable.

Gionee hasn't skimped on the
 box contents: in addition to the standard charger, cable and headset, 
we found a handy USB OTG adapter, a second plastic back with an attached
 flip cover (but a less attractive fake leather texture), an adhesive 
screen guard, and a small lint-free cloth.

SpecificationsWhile
 the build quality generally surpasses that of other phones at this 
price, the specifications bring us back down to reality. This phone runs
 on a 1.3GHz quad-core MediaTek MT6735 SoC, which is pretty modern and 
so far uncommon. The MT6735 has four 64-bit ARM Cortex-A53 CPU cores, 
Mali-T720 MP2 graphics and even integrated LTE, all of which make it 
quite interesting. There's a standard 2GB of RAM and 16GB of internal 
storage space. MicroSD support is limited to 32GB, but you can use USB 
OTG storage devices. There's Bluetooth 4.0, Wi-Fi b/g/n and FM radio. 
Indian 4G bands are supported, which is a nice touch. 

The screen 
measures 5 inches diagonally and has a resolution of 720x1280. The rear 
camera has an 8-megapixel sensor and the front one has a 5-megapixel 
sensor. All of this is pretty unexciting, but there are no glaring 
omissions either. What you're really paying for is the battery.

Speaking
 of which, the battery has the same hefty 5,000mAh capacity that the one
 in the Marathon M3 did, so our expectations are already quite high. 
Gionee claims up to 440 hours of standby time and up to 50 hours of 
talktime, which are both exceptional numbers.

SoftwareGionee,
 like pretty much all Chinese companies, forces its own UI on top of 
Android in order to stand out and be memorable. This involves a bunch of
 proprietary features and preloaded apps which users might not always 
like. Those who comfortable with Android might want to override these 
choices, but the experience won't be as smooth as it could be with stock
 Android. 

Amigo UI has lots of nice touches, but there's loads of
 room for improvement. For one, the shortcuts panel isn't in its usual 
place in the notifications shade, but copies the iOS Command Centre and 
must be pulled up from the bottom of the screen. This is especially 
awkward because you have to be very careful not to accidentally hit one 
of the capacitive buttons below the screen when trying to pull it up. 
You also can't get to it from within apps, somewhat defeating its 
purpose. For another thing, there's loads of awkward English everywhere,
 especially in the Settings app. Gionee really needs to hire someone to 
redo its UI translations, because some of the help text is anything but 
helpful.

The default keyboard is called TouchPal, and it has a few
 quirks such as popup hints that interfere with typing and could confuse
 users. However, the quick clipboard shortcuts and general 
customisability could make it quite popular.

Another oddball 
feature is the Fake Call button, which we've seen in previous Gionee 
phones as well. This lets you discretely trigger an incoming call in 15 
seconds in order to get out of an uncomfortable situation. The phone 
behaves just as if you're actually receiving a call - there's even a 
prerecorded message asking you to send "the files" urgently.

You 
don't get a separate app drawer, so all app icons and widgets have to 
live mixed up on the home screens. Gionee does include a customisation 
app called Theme Park which has an icon set similar to the default 
Android L one. There's also an app called Chameleon that lets you point 
the camera at anything, and then picks out three complementary colours 
to create a new theme out of. Amigo Paper is a massive collection of 
wallpapers, very few of which were appealing to us.

UC Browser is 
pinned to the dock by default though you'll find Chrome buried in a 
folder if you go hunting for it. There's also GameZone, a mini app store
 for some very crude-looking games and apps. System Manager is a cleanup
 and monitoring tool that includes a handy cellular data counter and the
 ability to cut off network access to specific apps. There's also Saavn,
 WPS Office, Yahoo Cricket, Twitter, DU Speed Booster and Gionee Xender.

Despite
 having a huge battery, the phone offers two power saving modes. The 
less aggressive one shuts down background data and kills running apps, 
while the more extreme mode switches to a monochrome mode in which only 
the dialler, messaging app and clock are available. We've seen this idea
 implemented on many other phones, but in this case, a user could 
stretch battery life by several days which could make the phone really 
handy in any number of situations.

The included flip cover is much
 appreciated, but it does present its own set of problems. The phone 
knows when the cover is closed and immediately presents a small amount 
of information such as the date, time and notifications, through the 
clear window. There's also a quick shortcut to the torch. Flipping the 
cover open automatically wakes up the phone. The problem is that the 
cover doesn't stay closed, which means the phone tends to wake up all 
the time, and it's really easy to accidentally hit the torch shortcut.

PerformanceWe
 didn't feel any lags when swiping around the interface or in apps. 
Multitasking was also not a problem. However we did find that the screen
 wasn't as sharp as we've come to expect, and text did look a bit 
jagged. Viewing angles were decent and we didn't have trouble with the 
screen under direct sunlight. 

Benchmarks gave us unsurprisingly 
ordinary performance numbers. The Marathon M4 managed 27,742 points in 
AnTuTu and only 9,487 overall in Quadrant. Graphics performance wasn't 
too bad, with 15fps in GFXBench and 3,240 points in 3DMark Ice Storm 
Extreme. SunSpider ran in 1279.1ms. 

Videos played well and the 
phone's speaker got surprisingly loud without distorting, though music 
wasn't reproduced very well. In real-world usage including a few gaming 
and video streaming sessions, we felt only mild heat on the phone's 
rear. In terms of usability, we were a bit annoyed that the capacitive 
Android navigation buttons aren't backlit. 

The camera app is 
pretty full featured, though the interface doesn't really expose many 
options until you start tapping around. We liked the fact that exposure 
can be set independently of focus just by dragging the on-screen 
reticule around. There are also filters and several creative modes, 
though the help captions were total gibberish and in many cases were 
arbitrarily cut off mid-sentence.

Photos taken in daylight came 
out surprisingly well. We had some trouble with exposure detection but 
colours were vivid, textures were reproduced well even in the 
background, and noise was low. Photos actually looked really good when 
reviewed at full size. Low light shots were also good though clarity 
took a huge hit, noise was a problem, and shutter lag resulted in some 
missed opportunities. 

(Click to see full size)

But of course everyone wants to know the 
battery life score, and it turns out it was well worth the wait. This 
phone lasted a record-shattering 21 hours, 23 minutes in our video loop 
test. That's far better than even its predecessor managed. We were able 
to get through entire days of normal usage including a few games and 
videos and lots of 4G data usage with plenty of capacity to spare. Even 
better, we found that the phone charged surprisingly quickly thanks to 
the beefy 2,000mA charger included in the box - standard 1,000mA 
chargers will work, but will take longer.

VerdictThe Gionee
 Marathon M4 truly earns its name. While the battery isn't larger than 
the one its predecessor had, assorted improvements including software 
optimisations have resulted in an overall boost to effective battery 
life. That means this phone could be an enormous asset to those who have
 highly demanding jobs and don't like carrying external batteries 
around, but also to those who could find themselves away from a power 
outlet for days at a stretch.

There's nothing that really stands 
out on the spec sheet, but that's okay with us especially considering 
the impressive build quality and overall experience of using this phone.
 If battery life isn't a concern, you can find plenty of other models that are slimmer and probably faster for the same amount of money or less. But this phone is all about the battery, and in that respect it has no competition. We only hope that Gionee will pay more attention to the quality of its UI translations in the next software release.

