Sony Xperia T3 Review: Battery Life Saves the Day

The
 advent of new players in the Indian Android smartphone market has 
changed its dynamics a lot. Well-entrenched brands such as Sony, Samsung
 and HTC have had to innovate rapidly. Sony's latest is a slim 
smartphone which has a decent set of specifications on paper - the Sony 
Xperia T3. The only problem we anticipate is the pricing of this 
phone, compared to others with similar specifications. We put it to the 
test to find out if the Xperia T3 is worth its rather high price tag.Look and FeelSony
 seems to be bullish on its Omnibalance design for smartphones, which 
was introduced with the Xperia Z. The Xperia T3 follows the same 
principles but tweaks them slightly to accommodate a matte plastic back.
 A stainless steel strip runs along the edges of the phone and makes it 
look premium. The back attracts a lot of grime and we think the glass 
back on Sony's more premium smartphones looks better. The Xperia T3 is 
available in Sony's usual three colours - black, white and purple. The
 Xperia T3 is possibly the slimmest Sony smartphone yet, at 7mm thick. 
Its weight of 148g is distributed evenly. It has a width of 77mm and a 
height of 150.7mm. The bezels around the 5.3-inch screen are quite 
thick, making the Xperia T3 look large. Sony could have trimmed it 
little bit more but we are nit-picking here because the Xperia T3 is 
actually pretty comfortable to use. Unlike its more expensive siblings, 
the Xperia T3 is neither waterproof nor shockproof.Sony has 
decided to place the Micro-USB port on the left edge of the device. The 
right is crowded with a dedicated camera shutter button, volume rocker, 
power button and a flap that conceals the SIM card and microSD card 
slots. A 3.5mm jack sits on the top while a lanyard eyelet and 
microphone are present on the bottom. The non-removable rear of the smartphone has the
 camera with flash and the loudspeaker. Specifications and SoftwareThe
 Xperia T3 runs on a 1.4GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 processor 
with Adreno 305 graphics, and has 1GB of RAM. The phone has 8GB of 
internal storage and accepts microSD cards up to 32GB, which is low 
considering even cheaper phones support up to 128GB cards.There 
is an 8-megapixel rear camera with a flash and a 1.1-megapixel front 
camera. The rear camera can shoot 1080p videos while the one in front 
can capture videos at up to 720p. The Indian variant of the Xperia T3 
does not support 4G but can connect to 3G networks. Apart from Wi-Fi and
 Bluetooth 4.0, the Xperia T3 also supports NFC. Inside the phone is a 
large 2,500mAh battery.The 5.3-inch screen has a 720p resolution,
 which translates to a pixel density of 277ppi. The screen is adequately
 sharp and the colours are saturated nicely thanks to the Mobile Bravia 
Engine 2, but viewing angles are not that good as the glass is very 
reflective. Moreover, the screen was too dim and we had to crank up the 
brightness most of the time.The phone runs Android 4.4.2 KitKat, 
which is great. Sony slaps its usual skin on top of it, which is nothing
 we haven't seen before in other Sony smartphones. Annoyingly, 
long-pressing one of the quick toggles in the notifications shade 
doesn't take you to the relevant settings page, though we like the fact 
that the shade is transparent. Sony bundles a ton of apps which 
include NeoReader, Facebook, Sony Select, What's New, Walkman, Socialife
 News, Video Unlimited, TrackID, Smart Connect, Support, TrackID TV, 
Update Centre, Office Suite, File Commander, Navigation by Garmin, 
Xperia Lounge, Sketch and Pixlr Express. It is definitely a long list.`What's
 New is basically a curated content board which offers information about
 new apps, games, music, TV shows and movies on the Play Store. It is 
present on the home screen by default and looks good. CameraSony's
 custom camera software has a ton of modes including Superior Auto, 
Manual, AR Effect, Creative Effect, Timeshift Burst, Social Live, Sweep 
Panorama and Portrait Retouch. As we mentioned in the review of the Sony
 Xperia T2 Ultra, the AR Effect mode is gimmicky and looks cheap. In 
order to shoot in HDR one has to find the setting inside the Manual 
mode.The pictures captured by the 8-megapixel rear camera look 
good. The Xperia T3 captures a lot of detail, which is evident in the 
picture of leaves on a tree. The colours are natural too. The only 
problem is that it doesn't let in adequate light, making photos look 
slightly duller than they should be. While photos captured in the HDR 
mode have a few muted details, the results are stunning and HDR photos 
are great for uploading to social networking websites. The camera
 struggles in low light conditions and we ended up capturing images with
 a lot of blur. 1080p video has a weird problem - despite holding the 
phone steady, captured video looked like a waving flag. We suspect it 
could be Sony's over-enthusiastic vibration reduction at play. The 
1.1-megapixel front camera is okay and can work for those times when you
 desperately need to take a selfie. (Click for full size)PerformanceQualcomm's 
Snapdragon 400 is a capable processor and it showed in our experience 
with the Xperia T3. In daily use, the phone was usually zippy with nary a
 lag. Apps opened and closed quickly, and we could browse through the 
app drawer with ease. The numbers are slightly higher than with what we 
have seen with other devices powered by the same processor. The Xperia 
T3 scored 19,924 and 10,324 respectively in our AnTuTu and Quadrant 
benchmarks. Gaming on a big screen is something the target 
audience would want to do but the Adreno 305 GPU can only handle casual 
games such as Temple Run and Angry Birds. We tried Shadowgun: Deadzone 
and it stuttered during gunfights. The numbers also prove this - the 
smartphone scored only 5,823 and 11fps respectively in 3DMark Ice Storm 
and GFXbench.We threw a bunch of test videos at the Xperia T3 and
 it played all of them, including the most heavily encoded 1080p clip 
without any hassle. The Xperia T3's speaker is one of the loudest we've 
tested and it was quite clear too. The bundled earphones are not the 
in-ear kind but they get the job done by being adequately loud and 
reproducing the low-end decently. Although, the sound was much better 
with our reference headphones.The earpiece volume is good and during our testing we didn't experience call drops.The Xperia T3 also performed 
admirably in our battery test. It lasted us 11 hours and 6 minutes, 
which is really good. The Stamina mode is even more wonderful because in
 two separate instances the phone lost only one percent of its charge in
 nine hours of inactivity.VerdictOne area where Sony fails
 miserably is with the pricing of the Xperia T3. At Rs. 27,990, even the
 limited period offer of a bundled SmartBand and premium case is not 
enticing enough. The two things going for the Sony Xperia T3 are its 
great battery life and decent camera performance, but nothing else about
 this phone's price-to-performance ratio works out. It just isn't
 compelling enough for us to recommend it whole-heartedly. In fact one 
could buy two Xiaomi Mi 3s (review | pictures), Moto Gs (review | pictures) or Zenfone 5s (review | pictures) at this price. You'd 
be better off with any of these phones and a portable battery pack.
Sony Xperia T3 in pictures

The
 advent of new players in the Indian Android smartphone market has 
changed its dynamics a lot. Well-entrenched brands such as Sony, Samsung
 and HTC have had to innovate rapidly. Sony's latest is a slim 
smartphone which has a decent set of specifications on paper - the Sony 
Xperia T3. 

The only problem we anticipate is the pricing of this 
phone, compared to others with similar specifications. We put it to the 
test to find out if the Xperia T3 is worth its rather high price tag.

Look and FeelSony
 seems to be bullish on its Omnibalance design for smartphones, which 
was introduced with the Xperia Z. The Xperia T3 follows the same 
principles but tweaks them slightly to accommodate a matte plastic back.
 A stainless steel strip runs along the edges of the phone and makes it 
look premium. The back attracts a lot of grime and we think the glass 
back on Sony's more premium smartphones looks better. The Xperia T3 is 
available in Sony's usual three colours - black, white and purple. 

The
 Xperia T3 is possibly the slimmest Sony smartphone yet, at 7mm thick. 
Its weight of 148g is distributed evenly. It has a width of 77mm and a 
height of 150.7mm. The bezels around the 5.3-inch screen are quite 
thick, making the Xperia T3 look large. Sony could have trimmed it 
little bit more but we are nit-picking here because the Xperia T3 is 
actually pretty comfortable to use. Unlike its more expensive siblings, 
the Xperia T3 is neither waterproof nor shockproof.

Sony has 
decided to place the Micro-USB port on the left edge of the device. The 
right is crowded with a dedicated camera shutter button, volume rocker, 
power button and a flap that conceals the SIM card and microSD card 
slots. A 3.5mm jack sits on the top while a lanyard eyelet and 
microphone are present on the bottom. The non-removable rear of the smartphone has the
 camera with flash and the loudspeaker. 

Specifications and SoftwareThe
 Xperia T3 runs on a 1.4GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 processor 
with Adreno 305 graphics, and has 1GB of RAM. The phone has 8GB of 
internal storage and accepts microSD cards up to 32GB, which is low 
considering even cheaper phones support up to 128GB cards.

There 
is an 8-megapixel rear camera with a flash and a 1.1-megapixel front 
camera. The rear camera can shoot 1080p videos while the one in front 
can capture videos at up to 720p. The Indian variant of the Xperia T3 
does not support 4G but can connect to 3G networks. Apart from Wi-Fi and
 Bluetooth 4.0, the Xperia T3 also supports NFC. Inside the phone is a 
large 2,500mAh battery.

The 5.3-inch screen has a 720p resolution,
 which translates to a pixel density of 277ppi. The screen is adequately
 sharp and the colours are saturated nicely thanks to the Mobile Bravia 
Engine 2, but viewing angles are not that good as the glass is very 
reflective. Moreover, the screen was too dim and we had to crank up the 
brightness most of the time.

The phone runs Android 4.4.2 KitKat, 
which is great. Sony slaps its usual skin on top of it, which is nothing
 we haven't seen before in other Sony smartphones. Annoyingly, 
long-pressing one of the quick toggles in the notifications shade 
doesn't take you to the relevant settings page, though we like the fact 
that the shade is transparent. 

Sony bundles a ton of apps which 
include NeoReader, Facebook, Sony Select, What's New, Walkman, Socialife
 News, Video Unlimited, TrackID, Smart Connect, Support, TrackID TV, 
Update Centre, Office Suite, File Commander, Navigation by Garmin, 
Xperia Lounge, Sketch and Pixlr Express. It is definitely a long list.`

What's
 New is basically a curated content board which offers information about
 new apps, games, music, TV shows and movies on the Play Store. It is 
present on the home screen by default and looks good. 

CameraSony's
 custom camera software has a ton of modes including Superior Auto, 
Manual, AR Effect, Creative Effect, Timeshift Burst, Social Live, Sweep 
Panorama and Portrait Retouch. As we mentioned in the review of the Sony
 Xperia T2 Ultra, the AR Effect mode is gimmicky and looks cheap. In 
order to shoot in HDR one has to find the setting inside the Manual 
mode.

The pictures captured by the 8-megapixel rear camera look 
good. The Xperia T3 captures a lot of detail, which is evident in the 
picture of leaves on a tree. The colours are natural too. The only 
problem is that it doesn't let in adequate light, making photos look 
slightly duller than they should be. While photos captured in the HDR 
mode have a few muted details, the results are stunning and HDR photos 
are great for uploading to social networking websites. 

The camera
 struggles in low light conditions and we ended up capturing images with
 a lot of blur. 1080p video has a weird problem - despite holding the 
phone steady, captured video looked like a waving flag. We suspect it 
could be Sony's over-enthusiastic vibration reduction at play. The 
1.1-megapixel front camera is okay and can work for those times when you
 desperately need to take a selfie. 

(Click for full size)PerformanceQualcomm's 
Snapdragon 400 is a capable processor and it showed in our experience 
with the Xperia T3. In daily use, the phone was usually zippy with nary a
 lag. Apps opened and closed quickly, and we could browse through the 
app drawer with ease. The numbers are slightly higher than with what we 
have seen with other devices powered by the same processor. The Xperia 
T3 scored 19,924 and 10,324 respectively in our AnTuTu and Quadrant 
benchmarks. 

Gaming on a big screen is something the target 
audience would want to do but the Adreno 305 GPU can only handle casual 
games such as Temple Run and Angry Birds. We tried Shadowgun: Deadzone 
and it stuttered during gunfights. The numbers also prove this - the 
smartphone scored only 5,823 and 11fps respectively in 3DMark Ice Storm 
and GFXbench.

We threw a bunch of test videos at the Xperia T3 and
 it played all of them, including the most heavily encoded 1080p clip 
without any hassle. The Xperia T3's speaker is one of the loudest we've 
tested and it was quite clear too. The bundled earphones are not the 
in-ear kind but they get the job done by being adequately loud and 
reproducing the low-end decently. Although, the sound was much better 
with our reference headphones.The earpiece volume is good and during our testing we didn't experience call drops.

The Xperia T3 also performed 
admirably in our battery test. It lasted us 11 hours and 6 minutes, 
which is really good. The Stamina mode is even more wonderful because in
 two separate instances the phone lost only one percent of its charge in
 nine hours of inactivity.

VerdictOne area where Sony fails
 miserably is with the pricing of the Xperia T3. At Rs. 27,990, even the
 limited period offer of a bundled SmartBand and premium case is not 
enticing enough. The two things going for the Sony Xperia T3 are its 
great battery life and decent camera performance, but nothing else about
 this phone's price-to-performance ratio works out. 

It just isn't
 compelling enough for us to recommend it whole-heartedly. In fact one 
could buy two Xiaomi Mi 3s (review | pictures), Moto Gs (review | pictures) or Zenfone 5s (review | pictures) at this price. You'd 
be better off with any of these phones and a portable battery pack.

