Nokia Lumia 1520 review

The Lumia 1520 has two big things working against it, neither of 
which is a deal-breaker on its own, but when combined, make it a very 
interesting product to review. First, it's a Windows Phone. While the 
platform certainly does have its fans, there's no denying that it isn't 
as versatile as iOS and Android yet. As a person buying this phone, you 
will have to put up with a number of limitations and frustrations 
because of its software. Second, it's huge. So-called "phablets" are big
 business, but not everybody wants a phone that can't fit in a pocket 
and be held in one hand. With that said, it's time to examine this phone
 on its own merits and see whether Nokia has managed to distinguish 
itself with a winner.Look and feelNokia's first 
big-screened Lumia seems like a "me-too" product. Sensing that Android 
manufacturers have been making huge profits with such devices, they want
 in on the action. Luckily, both Microsoft and Nokia have been able to 
tweak their software and hardware manufacturing well in time to catch 
this wave. The Lumia 1520 isn't just a stretched-out version of any other 
model, although its bright polycarbonate shell fits right in with the 
rest of the Lumia lineup. We had the glossy red model in for review, and
 while we were impressed with the quality of materials and construction,
 we found it a bit too flashy. Other manufacturers' flagship devices use
 metal or more subtle coloured plastic, and it seems Nokia is 
specifically going after a young, outgoing sort of customer with its 
current design direction. The subtler matte finish of the white and 
black variants will have a much broader appeal.The 1520 is a 
near-perfect rectangular slab with rounded edges and blunt pointy 
corners. The back is flat except for a roughly 1mm tall circular bump 
housing the rear camera's optics. On the whole, the body is impressively
 thin and still manages to be reassuringly strong when bent or flexed. 
The front face is made of toughened Gorilla Glass 2, which should be 
able to withstand a fair bit of abuse. The back is mostly blank, with 
only the camera lens, dual-LED flash, speaker grille and microphone 
array visible. Nokia's own branding and PureView logos are printed in a 
surprisingly subtle, light ink. On the right edge you'll find a volume 
control rocker, power button and camera button, while a Micro-USB port 
sits on the bottom and a standard 3.5mm headset jack is the only thing 
on top. The left edge has slots for your Nano-SIM and microSD cards, 
both covered by flaps that can be released with a pin or the included 
eject tool.At 209g, the Lumia 1520 is the heftiest of its 
siblings. Its size and weight make it rather cumbersome to carry around 
and you won't be comfortable holding it in one hand for very long. For 
the purpose of comparison, Samsung's Galaxy Note 3 and HTC's One Max 
weigh in at 168g and 217g respectively. The weight and smooth glossy 
body make it very easy for this phone to slip out of a trouser pocket 
when you sit down, although you're unlikely to want to keep it in a 
pocket at all. Unless you wear a jacket or carry a bag every day, you'll
 probably end up carrying it in your hand.Features and specificationsOn
 the inside, Nokia hasn't skimped on anything. The 1520 is powered by a 
top-of-the-line Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 SoC (system-on-a-chip), which 
consists of a Krait 400 CPU running at 2.2GHz and Adreno 330 graphics 
processor along with integrated LTE, Wi-Fi, GPS and Bluetooth 
communications modules. Pretty much every flagship smartphone on the 
market today and even a few tablets use this particular SoC, so the 1520
 is in good company. 2GB of RAM should be more than enough for even the 
most demanding tasks, including recording continuous HD video and 
capturing 20-megapixel photos. The battery is non-removable, as is the 
norm these days. Nokia's ClearBlack IPS LCD is vivid and sharp, with a 
highly reflective surface. Colours don't pop as much as they do on some 
of the AMOLED screens used by competitors, which is a matter of personal
 preference.The Lumia 1520's PureView camera is one of its 
biggest selling points, but it isn't the same record-setting 
41-megapixel unit that first debuted with the Symbian-powered Nokia 808 
and later re-emerged on the Lumia 1020. The 1020 thus remains Nokia's 
current flagship camera phone, which creates an odd division in their 
product lineup. The 1520 has better specifications all around, 
especially the screen and processor, but it doesn't get the benefit of 
what is easily Nokia's best innovation in the entire series. 
Nevertheless, this camera still bears the "PureView" tag, and with the 
combination of hardware and software used, you still get optical image 
stabilisation, the ability to record in RAW format, manual focus, ISO 
and shutter speed control, advanced post-capture editing options, and of
 course full-HD video recording at 30 frames per second.SoftwareThe
 Windows Phone environment is what truly sets the Lumia 1520 apart from 
all its big-screened rivals. Microsoft has managed to update the OS to 
work with large, pixel-dense screens, so everything looks crisp and 
slick. There's room for an extra column of medium-sized tiles on the 
home screen, and you can have a maximum of six small ones in a row. Most
 apps look great, especially ebook apps and games, but surfing the Web 
is a mixed bag since some sites default to a mobile layout, which just 
looks ridiculous on such a device. The high resolution and pixel 
density help make Windows Phone's various pages full of thin typography 
feel less sparse, but the sheer size of the screen also amplifies the 
OS's annoyances, such as the excessive animations that accompany every 
screen transition and menu fly-out. Other little things matter too: 
menus roll up from the bottom of the screen but confirmation dialogs are
 displayed right on top, well beyond the reach of your thumb. You'll 
find yourself adjusting your grip on the 1520 every time you encounter 
things like this that just weren't designed with such a large screen in 
mind.That brings us to the software's biggest flaw: Nokia and 
Microsoft haven't managed to figure out how to make a soft keyboard work
 on such a large device. The standard keyboard has simply been stretched
 to fill the screen's width, but it also retains its original 
proportions, resulting in keys that are too large and widely spaced for 
quick two-thumbed typing. This also means that when active, the keyboard
 obstructs well over half of the available vertical screen space, so 
while reading documents is a total pleasure, typing and editing are far 
more frustrating than they should be on such an otherwise capable 
device. The only people who would actually benefit from this are those 
who prefer hunt-and-peck typing with a single finger.One of the 
platform's flagship features is MS Office integration. Apart from the 
keyboard issue, working with documents is a fantastic experience, and 
this is one of the best reasons to choose a big-screened phone. You can 
view Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents, but creation is limited to 
Word and Excel. You can type out text documents just like notes, with a 
few limited formatting options, and create spreadsheets with formulas 
and even graphs. Again, we ran into limitations in the way that Windows 
Phone apps are designed: there's a lot of untapped potential given the 
1520's screen and processor. Just to prove this point, we loaded the 
desktop version of SkyDrive in Internet Explorer. The integrated Office 
Online version of Word loaded perfectly, giving us a much fuller, more 
powerful tool on exactly the same hardware (although, to be fair, it 
involved a lot of pinching and zooming to actually make use of).Microsoft
 includes a voice command feature that's far more basic than Siri on iOS
 and Android's integrated functions. You can basically only open apps 
and dial saved numbers, although third-party apps can also add their own
 commands. The feature is only notable because, at least with the 
default setting on our review unit, the phone responds to commands in an
 Indianised voice with overdone inflections. This might have been 
intended to make users here feel more comfortable, but it really does 
come across as cartoonish and patronising.Nokia-specific tweaksMicrosoft's
 efforts have also been supplemented by Nokia in the form of several 
apps and tweaks, and the Lumia 1520 is the first device to ship with 
Nokia's latest "Black" software update preinstalled. The most useful of 
these is the Glance screen, which basically displays the time, phone 
status and notifications on the phone's lock screen persistently, even 
after the screen times out. Users of older Nokia Series 60 smartphones 
will find this familiar: it's exactly the same as the old "screensaver" 
feature, but now it's done by keeping the screen backlight very slightly
 illuminated. This might impact battery life to a very small extent, but
 Glance uses the phone's proximity sensor to turn itself off when it 
detects it's in a case or pocket. Similarly, since the power button 
won't always be easy to reach, you can wake the phone by double-tapping 
anywhere on the screen when it's asleep. Last but not least, Nokia has 
also decided to cater (or pander) to Indian buyers with a small 
collection of Indian ringtones, all of which sound like the background 
scores of incredibly cheesy tourism ads.
CameraNokia's 
historical strength in imaging has resulted in the truly excellent 
PureView series of camera phones, but it isn't only hardware that sets 
the company apart. Nokia knows perfectly well that a phone's camera is 
only as good as its interface. After having released a number of 
well-received camera apps, Nokia has decided to coalesce them all into a
 single one called -- what else -- Nokia Camera. This app replaces the default
 Windows Phone camera app, which is truly a blessing. In the default 
Still mode, you can quickly adjust settings for the flash, white 
balance, ISO, shutter speed and brightness. You can even manually focus 
an image as you'd like it. Nudging the shutter release icon inward makes
 a semi-transparent overlay appear over the display with crescent-shaped
 sliders for all these settings, and you can see how changing one value 
affects the others. If you push one too far, you'll see a red highlight 
and some of the others might become unavailable. This helps you use the 
best settings for normal shots, but also experiment with artistic ideas.
 By default, the app is set to capture 16:9 photos at 16 
megapixel resolution, but changing this to standard 4:3 actually nets 
you 19megapixel images, since these are essentially uncropped versions 
of the same frames. Smaller 5-megapixel versions of all shots are saved 
in addition to the full size, which are easier to email and upload via 
various apps. In fact the only way to get the original high-res versions
 of photos off the phone is to connect it to a PC via USB. In addition 
to JPG, you can choose to record files in the DNG RAW format, which is 
uncompressed and allows for much more flexible editing later on a PC (at
 the cost of enormous file sizes).We were very pleased with the 
quality of shots captured with the Lumia 1520, both in daylight and at 
night. Zooming in to the full-resolution version of photos, we were able
 to expose minor imperfections such as JPEG artefacts and noise, but 
you'll rarely ever see these on screen. The luxury of having such a 
large image is that imperfections vanish when you scale downwards. It's 
possible to capture gorgeous macro shots, and of course being able to 
manually adjust focus is quite a thrill. (Click to see full size)In video mode, you only 
have white balance and focus controls, and can use the flash for 
constant illumination. There is one neat feature, though: That array of 
microphones on the rear panel allows the phone to detect where the 
subjects you're filming are, and boost audio from them while diminishing
 background noise. Video is captured at 1080p, which can be stepped down
 to 720p, and 30 frames per second which can be changed to 25 and 24 fps
 if you prefer. Videos are just as crisp and clear as we expected, and 
the optical image stabilisation feature really does make a difference.(Click to see full size)
Finally,
 the third mode is what used to be Nokia's standalone Smart Camera app. 
In this mode, holding down the shutter button for a few seconds captures
 a series of frames in rapid succession. The phone then runs through a 
few processing algorithms and comes up with what it considers the best 
shot. You can swipe up and down to perform other tricks, such as 
superimposing multiple copies of a moving subject against a static 
background, blurring the background with only the subject in focus, and 
choosing the best combination of smiles from different frames. The 
Action Shot and Remove Moving Object modes only really work well when 
you can ensure that only one thing in the frame is moving, and that too 
at a particular speed. Playing with Smart Camera is a lot of fun, but it
 will take a bit of practice to get results that are as good as the ones
 in Nokia's tutorial and advertising materials. There's one more 
photography feature in the form of a standalone app, or a "lens" that 
can be launched from within the camera app's menu, called Nokia Refocus.
 This app captures images while also saving information about the scene 
at multiple different focal lengths. After taking the photo, you can tap
 different parts of the frame to decide whether the foreground or 
background should be blurred or focussed. For no apparent reason, 
there's a trick within a trick here: you can also tap any object in the 
frame to preserve its colour, while everything else turns to black and 
white. It's a neat effect, but it's best when used sparingly and subtly.
 Other appsNokia's other big software selling point is the
 Here maps app with Drive+ global navigation directions. At least as far
 as larger cities go, we found the maps to be accurate and useful. 
Although the maps aren't as detailed as Google's, Nokia should get more 
credit than it does for its mapping features, especially the directions 
that include options for walking, driving, and public transport. You can
 check for updated maps and also save them to the device so you aren't 
dependent on an Internet connection, which frequent travellers will 
appreciate. The My Commute feature lets your phone learn where you 
travel from and to frequently, and it will calculate the best route for 
you and alert you to bad traffic conditions on any given day. You can 
pin a special My Commute live tile to the phone's Start screen to stay 
informed of traffic conditions on the way.	Nokia Beamer is a 
hidden gem that links your phone to a service that you can access in any
 Web browser on any other device, and simply mirrors the contents of 
your screen to it. You can pair the phone by pointing its camera at a QR
 code displayed on the target machine's screen, after which pairing is 
effortless. Visuals are transmitted through the Internet, so don't 
expect perfectly clear video unless you have superfast Internet 
connections for both the phone and the target device.Performance and ratingsAs
 expected, the Lumia 1520 sailed through our synthetic benchmarks. We 
don't anticipate any problem running current or future apps, even 
graphically intensive ones. Games look incredible on the full-HD screen,
 which wasn't a surprise either. We noticed a few issues, such as a 
portion of the screen being cut off in one game, and visible tearing in 
another. We hope this is just a matter of developers optimising their 
titles for the new hardware, because the Lumia 1520 certainly has the 
potential to be a gaming powerhouse.In our subjective analysis, 
the points that stood out were the device's build quality, overall 
screen quality, and the performance of the camera hardware and software.
 We gave it lower marks for UI design, ergonomics, and the quality of 
its app ecosystem. The Lumia 1520 is ultimately an unbalanced device, 
with extremely powerful hardware and software that doesn't yet take 
advantage of it. Battery life is solid, and we had no problems 
with normal day-to-day usage, which consisted of receiving calls plus a 
few hours of watching videos, playing games, and browsing the Web over 
Wi-Fi. We did notice that the enormous 3400mAh battery takes a really 
long time to charge up to 100 percent. Our formal video loop test 
returned a result of 10 hours and 20 minutes, which is  quite 
respectable.VerdictIf you want a Windows Phone with a 
supersized high-resolution screen, this is currently the only game in 
town. Nokia is the only manufacturer truly committed to Windows Phone, 
and with its acquisition by Microsoft now complete, it's unlikely that 
any other company will bother developing such a device. The Lumia 1520 
retails for roughly the same street price as the Lumia 1020, and both 
could be described as flagships of the line, depending on your 
priorities. The 1020's camera is simply unbeatable, and is the only 
thing keeping the 1520 from dominating the specifications charts in 
every category. However, the 1520's screen and nearly all its internal 
components are a generation ahead of the 1020's. Incidentally, 
most of the things we loved about the software such as the Glance 
screen, integrated camera app and Beamer app are contained in Nokia's 
"Black" update, which means they'll be rolling out to other Lumias 
shortly. It's also worth noting that Windows Phone 8.1 is expected in 
the second quarter of this year. While we don't have any clear 
indications as to what features and improvements it will bring, it's 
also likely that a new generation of phones will launch alongside it. 
The Lumia 1520 will almost certainly receive this update too, but we're 
not convinced it will have a very long shelf life, and that makes it 
even harder to recommend. So this is easily the most powerful 
Windows Phone we've ever used, but does that make it a great phone? 
We're hesitant to make a recommendation. If you love giant phones, there
 are quite a few Android options with screens and hardware that match 
the Lumia 1520, and they have the benefit of better optimised software 
and a far more substantial library of apps. If you love Windows Phone, 
there are cheaper options. The Lumia 1520 does stand out when it comes 
to its camera and looks, but you'd have to be pretty passionate about 
either of those things to spend close to Rs. 50,000 on this phone. Nokia Lumia 1520


The Lumia 1520 has two big things working against it, neither of 
which is a deal-breaker on its own, but when combined, make it a very 
interesting product to review. First, it's a Windows Phone. While the 
platform certainly does have its fans, there's no denying that it isn't 
as versatile as iOS and Android yet. As a person buying this phone, you 
will have to put up with a number of limitations and frustrations 
because of its software. Second, it's huge. So-called "phablets" are big
 business, but not everybody wants a phone that can't fit in a pocket 
and be held in one hand. With that said, it's time to examine this phone
 on its own merits and see whether Nokia has managed to distinguish 
itself with a winner.

Look and feelNokia's first 
big-screened Lumia seems like a "me-too" product. Sensing that Android 
manufacturers have been making huge profits with such devices, they want
 in on the action. Luckily, both Microsoft and Nokia have been able to 
tweak their software and hardware manufacturing well in time to catch 
this wave. The Lumia 1520 isn't just a stretched-out version of any other 
model, although its bright polycarbonate shell fits right in with the 
rest of the Lumia lineup. We had the glossy red model in for review, and
 while we were impressed with the quality of materials and construction,
 we found it a bit too flashy. Other manufacturers' flagship devices use
 metal or more subtle coloured plastic, and it seems Nokia is 
specifically going after a young, outgoing sort of customer with its 
current design direction. The subtler matte finish of the white and 
black variants will have a much broader appeal.

The 1520 is a 
near-perfect rectangular slab with rounded edges and blunt pointy 
corners. The back is flat except for a roughly 1mm tall circular bump 
housing the rear camera's optics. On the whole, the body is impressively
 thin and still manages to be reassuringly strong when bent or flexed. 
The front face is made of toughened Gorilla Glass 2, which should be 
able to withstand a fair bit of abuse. The back is mostly blank, with 
only the camera lens, dual-LED flash, speaker grille and microphone 
array visible. Nokia's own branding and PureView logos are printed in a 
surprisingly subtle, light ink. On the right edge you'll find a volume 
control rocker, power button and camera button, while a Micro-USB port 
sits on the bottom and a standard 3.5mm headset jack is the only thing 
on top. The left edge has slots for your Nano-SIM and microSD cards, 
both covered by flaps that can be released with a pin or the included 
eject tool.

At 209g, the Lumia 1520 is the heftiest of its 
siblings. Its size and weight make it rather cumbersome to carry around 
and you won't be comfortable holding it in one hand for very long. For 
the purpose of comparison, Samsung's Galaxy Note 3 and HTC's One Max 
weigh in at 168g and 217g respectively. The weight and smooth glossy 
body make it very easy for this phone to slip out of a trouser pocket 
when you sit down, although you're unlikely to want to keep it in a 
pocket at all. Unless you wear a jacket or carry a bag every day, you'll
 probably end up carrying it in your hand.

Features and specificationsOn
 the inside, Nokia hasn't skimped on anything. The 1520 is powered by a 
top-of-the-line Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 SoC (system-on-a-chip), which 
consists of a Krait 400 CPU running at 2.2GHz and Adreno 330 graphics 
processor along with integrated LTE, Wi-Fi, GPS and Bluetooth 
communications modules. Pretty much every flagship smartphone on the 
market today and even a few tablets use this particular SoC, so the 1520
 is in good company. 2GB of RAM should be more than enough for even the 
most demanding tasks, including recording continuous HD video and 
capturing 20-megapixel photos. The battery is non-removable, as is the 
norm these days. Nokia's ClearBlack IPS LCD is vivid and sharp, with a 
highly reflective surface. Colours don't pop as much as they do on some 
of the AMOLED screens used by competitors, which is a matter of personal
 preference.

The Lumia 1520's PureView camera is one of its 
biggest selling points, but it isn't the same record-setting 
41-megapixel unit that first debuted with the Symbian-powered Nokia 808 
and later re-emerged on the Lumia 1020. The 1020 thus remains Nokia's 
current flagship camera phone, which creates an odd division in their 
product lineup. The 1520 has better specifications all around, 
especially the screen and processor, but it doesn't get the benefit of 
what is easily Nokia's best innovation in the entire series. 
Nevertheless, this camera still bears the "PureView" tag, and with the 
combination of hardware and software used, you still get optical image 
stabilisation, the ability to record in RAW format, manual focus, ISO 
and shutter speed control, advanced post-capture editing options, and of
 course full-HD video recording at 30 frames per second.

SoftwareThe
 Windows Phone environment is what truly sets the Lumia 1520 apart from 
all its big-screened rivals. Microsoft has managed to update the OS to 
work with large, pixel-dense screens, so everything looks crisp and 
slick. There's room for an extra column of medium-sized tiles on the 
home screen, and you can have a maximum of six small ones in a row. Most
 apps look great, especially ebook apps and games, but surfing the Web 
is a mixed bag since some sites default to a mobile layout, which just 
looks ridiculous on such a device. 

The high resolution and pixel 
density help make Windows Phone's various pages full of thin typography 
feel less sparse, but the sheer size of the screen also amplifies the 
OS's annoyances, such as the excessive animations that accompany every 
screen transition and menu fly-out. Other little things matter too: 
menus roll up from the bottom of the screen but confirmation dialogs are
 displayed right on top, well beyond the reach of your thumb. You'll 
find yourself adjusting your grip on the 1520 every time you encounter 
things like this that just weren't designed with such a large screen in 
mind.

That brings us to the software's biggest flaw: Nokia and 
Microsoft haven't managed to figure out how to make a soft keyboard work
 on such a large device. The standard keyboard has simply been stretched
 to fill the screen's width, but it also retains its original 
proportions, resulting in keys that are too large and widely spaced for 
quick two-thumbed typing. This also means that when active, the keyboard
 obstructs well over half of the available vertical screen space, so 
while reading documents is a total pleasure, typing and editing are far 
more frustrating than they should be on such an otherwise capable 
device. The only people who would actually benefit from this are those 
who prefer hunt-and-peck typing with a single finger.

One of the 
platform's flagship features is MS Office integration. Apart from the 
keyboard issue, working with documents is a fantastic experience, and 
this is one of the best reasons to choose a big-screened phone. You can 
view Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents, but creation is limited to 
Word and Excel. You can type out text documents just like notes, with a 
few limited formatting options, and create spreadsheets with formulas 
and even graphs. Again, we ran into limitations in the way that Windows 
Phone apps are designed: there's a lot of untapped potential given the 
1520's screen and processor. Just to prove this point, we loaded the 
desktop version of SkyDrive in Internet Explorer. The integrated Office 
Online version of Word loaded perfectly, giving us a much fuller, more 
powerful tool on exactly the same hardware (although, to be fair, it 
involved a lot of pinching and zooming to actually make use of).

Microsoft
 includes a voice command feature that's far more basic than Siri on iOS
 and Android's integrated functions. You can basically only open apps 
and dial saved numbers, although third-party apps can also add their own
 commands. The feature is only notable because, at least with the 
default setting on our review unit, the phone responds to commands in an
 Indianised voice with overdone inflections. This might have been 
intended to make users here feel more comfortable, but it really does 
come across as cartoonish and patronising.

Nokia-specific tweaksMicrosoft's
 efforts have also been supplemented by Nokia in the form of several 
apps and tweaks, and the Lumia 1520 is the first device to ship with 
Nokia's latest "Black" software update preinstalled. The most useful of 
these is the Glance screen, which basically displays the time, phone 
status and notifications on the phone's lock screen persistently, even 
after the screen times out. Users of older Nokia Series 60 smartphones 
will find this familiar: it's exactly the same as the old "screensaver" 
feature, but now it's done by keeping the screen backlight very slightly
 illuminated. This might impact battery life to a very small extent, but
 Glance uses the phone's proximity sensor to turn itself off when it 
detects it's in a case or pocket. Similarly, since the power button 
won't always be easy to reach, you can wake the phone by double-tapping 
anywhere on the screen when it's asleep. Last but not least, Nokia has 
also decided to cater (or pander) to Indian buyers with a small 
collection of Indian ringtones, all of which sound like the background 
scores of incredibly cheesy tourism ads.

CameraNokia's 
historical strength in imaging has resulted in the truly excellent 
PureView series of camera phones, but it isn't only hardware that sets 
the company apart. Nokia knows perfectly well that a phone's camera is 
only as good as its interface. After having released a number of 
well-received camera apps, Nokia has decided to coalesce them all into a
 single one called -- what else -- Nokia Camera. This app replaces the default
 Windows Phone camera app, which is truly a blessing. In the default 
Still mode, you can quickly adjust settings for the flash, white 
balance, ISO, shutter speed and brightness. You can even manually focus 
an image as you'd like it. Nudging the shutter release icon inward makes
 a semi-transparent overlay appear over the display with crescent-shaped
 sliders for all these settings, and you can see how changing one value 
affects the others. If you push one too far, you'll see a red highlight 
and some of the others might become unavailable. This helps you use the 
best settings for normal shots, but also experiment with artistic ideas.
 

By default, the app is set to capture 16:9 photos at 16 
megapixel resolution, but changing this to standard 4:3 actually nets 
you 19megapixel images, since these are essentially uncropped versions 
of the same frames. Smaller 5-megapixel versions of all shots are saved 
in addition to the full size, which are easier to email and upload via 
various apps. In fact the only way to get the original high-res versions
 of photos off the phone is to connect it to a PC via USB. In addition 
to JPG, you can choose to record files in the DNG RAW format, which is 
uncompressed and allows for much more flexible editing later on a PC (at
 the cost of enormous file sizes).

We were very pleased with the 
quality of shots captured with the Lumia 1520, both in daylight and at 
night. Zooming in to the full-resolution version of photos, we were able
 to expose minor imperfections such as JPEG artefacts and noise, but 
you'll rarely ever see these on screen. The luxury of having such a 
large image is that imperfections vanish when you scale downwards. It's 
possible to capture gorgeous macro shots, and of course being able to 
manually adjust focus is quite a thrill. 

(Click to see full size)

In video mode, you only 
have white balance and focus controls, and can use the flash for 
constant illumination. There is one neat feature, though: That array of 
microphones on the rear panel allows the phone to detect where the 
subjects you're filming are, and boost audio from them while diminishing
 background noise. Video is captured at 1080p, which can be stepped down
 to 720p, and 30 frames per second which can be changed to 25 and 24 fps
 if you prefer. Videos are just as crisp and clear as we expected, and 
the optical image stabilisation feature really does make a difference.

(Click to see full size)

Finally,
 the third mode is what used to be Nokia's standalone Smart Camera app. 
In this mode, holding down the shutter button for a few seconds captures
 a series of frames in rapid succession. The phone then runs through a 
few processing algorithms and comes up with what it considers the best 
shot. You can swipe up and down to perform other tricks, such as 
superimposing multiple copies of a moving subject against a static 
background, blurring the background with only the subject in focus, and 
choosing the best combination of smiles from different frames. The 
Action Shot and Remove Moving Object modes only really work well when 
you can ensure that only one thing in the frame is moving, and that too 
at a particular speed. Playing with Smart Camera is a lot of fun, but it
 will take a bit of practice to get results that are as good as the ones
 in Nokia's tutorial and advertising materials. 

There's one more 
photography feature in the form of a standalone app, or a "lens" that 
can be launched from within the camera app's menu, called Nokia Refocus.
 This app captures images while also saving information about the scene 
at multiple different focal lengths. After taking the photo, you can tap
 different parts of the frame to decide whether the foreground or 
background should be blurred or focussed. For no apparent reason, 
there's a trick within a trick here: you can also tap any object in the 
frame to preserve its colour, while everything else turns to black and 
white. It's a neat effect, but it's best when used sparingly and subtly.
 

Other appsNokia's other big software selling point is the
 Here maps app with Drive+ global navigation directions. At least as far
 as larger cities go, we found the maps to be accurate and useful. 
Although the maps aren't as detailed as Google's, Nokia should get more 
credit than it does for its mapping features, especially the directions 
that include options for walking, driving, and public transport. You can
 check for updated maps and also save them to the device so you aren't 
dependent on an Internet connection, which frequent travellers will 
appreciate. The My Commute feature lets your phone learn where you 
travel from and to frequently, and it will calculate the best route for 
you and alert you to bad traffic conditions on any given day. You can 
pin a special My Commute live tile to the phone's Start screen to stay 
informed of traffic conditions on the way.	

Nokia Beamer is a 
hidden gem that links your phone to a service that you can access in any
 Web browser on any other device, and simply mirrors the contents of 
your screen to it. You can pair the phone by pointing its camera at a QR
 code displayed on the target machine's screen, after which pairing is 
effortless. Visuals are transmitted through the Internet, so don't 
expect perfectly clear video unless you have superfast Internet 
connections for both the phone and the target device.

Performance and ratingsAs
 expected, the Lumia 1520 sailed through our synthetic benchmarks. We 
don't anticipate any problem running current or future apps, even 
graphically intensive ones. Games look incredible on the full-HD screen,
 which wasn't a surprise either. We noticed a few issues, such as a 
portion of the screen being cut off in one game, and visible tearing in 
another. We hope this is just a matter of developers optimising their 
titles for the new hardware, because the Lumia 1520 certainly has the 
potential to be a gaming powerhouse.

In our subjective analysis, 
the points that stood out were the device's build quality, overall 
screen quality, and the performance of the camera hardware and software.
 We gave it lower marks for UI design, ergonomics, and the quality of 
its app ecosystem. The Lumia 1520 is ultimately an unbalanced device, 
with extremely powerful hardware and software that doesn't yet take 
advantage of it. 

Battery life is solid, and we had no problems 
with normal day-to-day usage, which consisted of receiving calls plus a 
few hours of watching videos, playing games, and browsing the Web over 
Wi-Fi. We did notice that the enormous 3400mAh battery takes a really 
long time to charge up to 100 percent. Our formal video loop test 
returned a result of 10 hours and 20 minutes, which is  quite 
respectable.

VerdictIf you want a Windows Phone with a 
supersized high-resolution screen, this is currently the only game in 
town. Nokia is the only manufacturer truly committed to Windows Phone, 
and with its acquisition by Microsoft now complete, it's unlikely that 
any other company will bother developing such a device. The Lumia 1520 
retails for roughly the same street price as the Lumia 1020, and both 
could be described as flagships of the line, depending on your 
priorities. The 1020's camera is simply unbeatable, and is the only 
thing keeping the 1520 from dominating the specifications charts in 
every category. However, the 1520's screen and nearly all its internal 
components are a generation ahead of the 1020's. 

Incidentally, 
most of the things we loved about the software such as the Glance 
screen, integrated camera app and Beamer app are contained in Nokia's 
"Black" update, which means they'll be rolling out to other Lumias 
shortly. It's also worth noting that Windows Phone 8.1 is expected in 
the second quarter of this year. While we don't have any clear 
indications as to what features and improvements it will bring, it's 
also likely that a new generation of phones will launch alongside it. 
The Lumia 1520 will almost certainly receive this update too, but we're 
not convinced it will have a very long shelf life, and that makes it 
even harder to recommend. 

So this is easily the most powerful 
Windows Phone we've ever used, but does that make it a great phone? 
We're hesitant to make a recommendation. If you love giant phones, there
 are quite a few Android options with screens and hardware that match 
the Lumia 1520, and they have the benefit of better optimised software 
and a far more substantial library of apps. If you love Windows Phone, 
there are cheaper options. The Lumia 1520 does stand out when it comes 
to its camera and looks, but you'd have to be pretty passionate about 
either of those things to spend close to Rs. 50,000 on this phone. 

