Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 review

"A large screen Android smartphone for under Rs. 10,000 please." This 
pretty much seems to be the segment where we are seeing the maximum 
number of launches in the past few months especially from Indian handset
 makers. It all started with Samsung launching its 5-inch Galaxy Note in
 2011, the success of which has prompted many Indian smartphone 
manufacturers to offer affordable large screen smartphones to the Indian
 consumers. Spice has recently launched another smartphone as 
part of its Stellar range. Dubbed as the Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495.,
 the device sports a 4.5-inch qHD display. It is powered by a dual-core 
processor and supports dual-SIM capabilities. At Rs. 10,499, this 
smartphone will be competing head on with the recently reviewed Xolo 
A800. Let us find out if Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is 
an interesting option to consider if users are looking at buying a large
 screen smartphone within a tight budget. Design/ HardwareThe
 Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is a rectangular-shaped smartphone  with a
 curved border. There is a silver lining running on the sides. The body 
seems to have a metallic finish, which makes it look quite sturdy. The
 4.5-inch screen takes up most of the front but there are no physical 
buttons. The left panel houses the volume dock, while the right has 
power/screen lock button. The top panel has the USB/charging port and 
the 3.5mm jack. On the back panel is an 8-megapixel camera. At
 150g, the phone seems just right in the hand, not too heavy or too 
light. Overall,  Spice has managed to a good job with this handset in 
terms of its design and looks. DisplayThe Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 comes with a 4.5-inch qHD (960x540) IPS display. The smartphone has wide viewing angles and shows true colours.Under sun visibility on the Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is good. The screen used in this smartphone is reflective. CameraThe
 smartphone comes with an 8-megapixel camera with LED flash. There is no
 dedicated camera button, which would have been welcome to click 
pictures. Also there is a bit of a lag when clicking the pictures. There
 are quite a few handy options available to click images that can aid 
your photography such as auto scene detect, face beauty, smile shot, 
best shot and EV bracket shot. You also have an option to click images 
in burst mode.  The quality of images and videos 
shot through this camera is good even under low light conditions. To 
assist taking video in dark there is an option in the camera to keep the
 LED lights on for about a minute. On the completion of this time you 
can opt to switch on this light again. There is a front 
camera as well but the images captured are pretty much a standard 
affair. One can click images in burst mode through the front camera as 
well but all other photographic aids are not available. Software/ InterfaceSpice
 Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 runs on Android 4.0.4 (Ice Cream Sandwich). It 
is pretty much the stock version of this operating system.  There are 
six customisable home screens, which can be used to add applications or 
widgets. The smartphone comes pre-loaded with various apps
 like Documents To Go, BSE/NSE stock exchange, Times of India, Nimbuzz 
and Stringo apart from the standard Facebook, Latitude, Google Talk, 
Gmail, What's App Messenger, Google Search and Youtube. Stringo
 is an app that helps in sharing videos and pictures with your contacts 
via Facebook. These pictures or videos should be pre-loaded on Facebook 
and the app helps in sharing them through SMS or audio chat with friends
 that have this app installed on their device. The app also allows users
 to send 50 free messages to those friends that do not have Stringo app. Apart
 from these, Spice has also added the SpiceGang app on this smartphone. 
This app is basically a WAP site, which houses a catalogue to download 
animations, videos, wallpapers etc. You can also check latest news and 
cricket scores through this app. Performance/ BatteryThis
 smartphone is powered by Mediatek's dual-core MT6577 chipset, which 
clocks in at a speed of 1GHz. This is coupled with 512MB RAM. The Spice 
Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is quite responsive and we did not encounter any
 lags or crashes while multi-tasking. However, heavy multi-taskers may 
be left craving for more than just 512 MB RAM. Spice 
Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 comes with a built-in storage of 1.55GB of which
 0.98GB is available to the user for apps. It comes pre-loaded with the 
stock Android browser, which renders web pages well. The 
smartphone comes with an audio player that can play MP3, WAV and MIDI 
formats. While the video player can play MP4 and 3GP formats. So if you 
were planning to watch AVI files, then you would have to download an app
 from the Google Play Store. The audio quality is good both on the headphones and the loudspeaker. The video quality on the device is good as well.The
 Spice Stellar Virtuoso comes with a 1,700mAh battery as compared to 
Xolo A800's 1,600mAh. However, on testing we found that it will be 
difficult for an average user to last a full day on a single charge. Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is a dual-SIM smartphone, supporting dual standby. VerdictIf
 you are looking for a large screen Android smartphone with a budget in 
mind, then Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is worth considering. It is a 
good-looking smartphone with sturdy build quality. However, one might 
run out of juice quite often. Another advantage for Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is that it is able to deliver decent performance without lags.  Also
 if you are looking for a slightly bigger screen at a slightly lesser 
cost, then you might want to consider Micromax A110 Canvas 2, which 
features a 5-inch screen and is available at a market-operating price of
 Rs. 9,500.Â Price: Rs.10,499

 

Spice has recently launched another smartphone as 
part of its Stellar range. Dubbed as the Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495.,
 the device sports a 4.5-inch qHD display. It is powered by a dual-core 
processor and supports dual-SIM capabilities. At Rs. 10,499, this 
smartphone will be competing head on with the recently reviewed Xolo 
A800.

 

Let us find out if Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is 
an interesting option to consider if users are looking at buying a large
 screen smartphone within a tight budget.

 

Design/ HardwareThe
 Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is a rectangular-shaped smartphone  with a
 curved border. There is a silver lining running on the sides. The body 
seems to have a metallic finish, which makes it look quite sturdy.

 

The
 4.5-inch screen takes up most of the front but there are no physical 
buttons. The left panel houses the volume dock, while the right has 
power/screen lock button. The top panel has the USB/charging port and 
the 3.5mm jack. On the back panel is an 8-megapixel camera.

 

At
 150g, the phone seems just right in the hand, not too heavy or too 
light. Overall,  Spice has managed to a good job with this handset in 
terms of its design and looks.

 

DisplayThe Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 comes with a 4.5-inch qHD (960x540) IPS display. The smartphone has wide viewing angles and shows true colours.

Under sun visibility on the Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is good. The screen used in this smartphone is reflective.

 

CameraThe
 smartphone comes with an 8-megapixel camera with LED flash. There is no
 dedicated camera button, which would have been welcome to click 
pictures. Also there is a bit of a lag when clicking the pictures.

 

There
 are quite a few handy options available to click images that can aid 
your photography such as auto scene detect, face beauty, smile shot, 
best shot and EV bracket shot. You also have an option to click images 
in burst mode.

 

 

The quality of images and videos 
shot through this camera is good even under low light conditions. To 
assist taking video in dark there is an option in the camera to keep the
 LED lights on for about a minute. On the completion of this time you 
can opt to switch on this light again.

 

There is a front 
camera as well but the images captured are pretty much a standard 
affair. One can click images in burst mode through the front camera as 
well but all other photographic aids are not available.

 

Software/ InterfaceSpice
 Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 runs on Android 4.0.4 (Ice Cream Sandwich). It 
is pretty much the stock version of this operating system.  There are 
six customisable home screens, which can be used to add applications or 
widgets.

 

The smartphone comes pre-loaded with various apps
 like Documents To Go, BSE/NSE stock exchange, Times of India, Nimbuzz 
and Stringo apart from the standard Facebook, Latitude, Google Talk, 
Gmail, What's App Messenger, Google Search and Youtube.

 

Stringo
 is an app that helps in sharing videos and pictures with your contacts 
via Facebook. These pictures or videos should be pre-loaded on Facebook 
and the app helps in sharing them through SMS or audio chat with friends
 that have this app installed on their device. The app also allows users
 to send 50 free messages to those friends that do not have Stringo app.

 

Apart
 from these, Spice has also added the SpiceGang app on this smartphone. 
This app is basically a WAP site, which houses a catalogue to download 
animations, videos, wallpapers etc. You can also check latest news and 
cricket scores through this app.

 

Performance/ BatteryThis
 smartphone is powered by Mediatek's dual-core MT6577 chipset, which 
clocks in at a speed of 1GHz. This is coupled with 512MB RAM. The Spice 
Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is quite responsive and we did not encounter any
 lags or crashes while multi-tasking. However, heavy multi-taskers may 
be left craving for more than just 512 MB RAM.

 

Spice 
Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 comes with a built-in storage of 1.55GB of which
 0.98GB is available to the user for apps. It comes pre-loaded with the 
stock Android browser, which renders web pages well.

 

The 
smartphone comes with an audio player that can play MP3, WAV and MIDI 
formats. While the video player can play MP4 and 3GP formats. So if you 
were planning to watch AVI files, then you would have to download an app
 from the Google Play Store.

 

The audio quality is good both on the headphones and the loudspeaker. The video quality on the device is good as well.

The
 Spice Stellar Virtuoso comes with a 1,700mAh battery as compared to 
Xolo A800's 1,600mAh. However, on testing we found that it will be 
difficult for an average user to last a full day on a single charge.

 

Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is a dual-SIM smartphone, supporting dual standby.

 

VerdictIf
 you are looking for a large screen Android smartphone with a budget in 
mind, then Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is worth considering. It is a 
good-looking smartphone with sturdy build quality. However, one might 
run out of juice quite often.

 

Another advantage for Spice Stellar Virtuoso Mi-495 is that it is able to deliver decent performance without lags. 

 

Also
 if you are looking for a slightly bigger screen at a slightly lesser 
cost, then you might want to consider Micromax A110 Canvas 2, which 
features a 5-inch screen and is available at a market-operating price of
 Rs. 9,500.Â Price: Rs.10,499

