Micromax's Yu Yureka Review: It's Mi Against Yu

Micromax is India's top domestic smartphone
 vendor and has plenty of popular products on offer. Even so, it has a 
bit of a reputation for selling low-quality products and it knows that 
there are people who would simply never consider a Micromax phone over, 
say, a Samsung or a Sony. There are also dozens of other companies with 
very similar products, and any of them could easily become as 
successful. The company now wants products that will stand out 
and have strong individual identities - and that means making some bold 
moves. The result is Yu Televentures, an all-new subsidiary company 
which will develop and sell smartphones aimed at the youth market. Yu 
will target tech-savvy but budget-conscious buyers, and is banking on 
catchy names and slogans with "attitude". Interestingly, these phones 
will only be available online. The company also talks up an "ecosystem 
of connected devices" and a "differentiated user experience". Yu's
 primary means of achieving this is an exclusive tieup with Cyanogen Inc. to preload Cyanogen 11, a popular Android fork, onto its devices. 
Few Indian companies have bothered really tweaking the software 
experience on the phones they sell (Xolo being a notable exception with 
its Hive UI) and Micromax itself has been known to load devices with 
useless bloat. Cyanogen is polished and powerful, and will help these 
devices stand out.Yu's first product, the Yureka, is a pretty 
important phone. Cheesy name aside, Yu seems to be gunning for the slot 
formerly occupied by the 3G Xiaomi Redmi Note (Review | Photos). The Yureka's size, 
appearance and specifications are pretty evenly matched with those of 
Xiaomi's big-screen offering, which means they're impressive considering
 both devices' low price tags. Look and feelThere's no 
sign of Micromax anywhere on the product or its packaging despite that 
brand's popularity, which means Yu really doesn't want to be associated 
with its parent company. The box is very plain; just brown cardboard 
with Yu and Cyanogen logos printed on all sides. It's almost as 
minimalist as Xiaomi's boxes, but nowhere near as slick.The Yu 
Yureka itself is not especially slim or light but it does appear better 
constructed than most Micromax phones we've seen before. The front is 
smooth and free of markings other than an outline of the Home button 
printed beneath the screen. The Back and Menu buttons don't have printed
 icons but all three light up when the screen is active. There isn't 
much room around the screen, and the edges are slightly raised to help 
prevent scratching. The "moonstone grey" rear has an interesting 
texture - at first glance, it looks exactly like the rough sandpapery 
finish of the OnePlus One's rear, though in this case it's smooth and 
pleasant to hold. For some reason, Yu decided to go with a light blue 
printed logo which looks very odd and cheapens the entire device. The 
camera and flash are tucked away in one corner and the only other thing 
to be seen is a small speaker grille running across the bottom.The
 power and volume buttons are easily reachable on the sides, and the 
Micro-USB and headset sockets are on the bottom and top respectively. 
Beneath the rear shell you'll find the removable battery, two Micro-SIM 
card slots and a microSD slot. One of the SIMs is hot swappable, but the
 other two slots can only be used if you pop the battery out.Specifications and softwareThere's
 a lot to like about the Yu Yureka. For starters, there's the brand new 
Qualcomm Snapdragon 615, an octa-core SoC with 64-bit support. Lower 
cost octa-core processors from MediaTek have been around for quite a 
while, but this is a first for Qualcomm. Cyanogen 11 just happens to be 
64-bit capable, which makes that feature worthwhile too. There's 2GB of 
RAM, which is good for a phone in this price bracket. There's 16GB of 
internal storage space and up to 32GB can be added using a microSD card.
 We're also happy with the screen's 720x1280-pixel resolution. At
 5.5 inches, it's just a little grainy - but again we're reminded that 
we could be doing a lot worse when it comes to sub-Rs. 10,000 
smartphones. The standard wireless protocols are covered: Bluetooth 4.0 
and Wi-Fi b/g/n. LTE is supported on the 2300MHz TDD band currently used
 by Indian service providers as well as the less common 1800MHz FDD 
band.The Yureka isn't the first device in India to come running 
Cyanogen OS - that distinction goes to the OnePlus One (Review | Photos). For now, it 
looks as though OnePlus won't be able to sell devices running Cyanogen 
anymore, thanks to a rather contentiousÂ  legal dispute between all three 
companies. Cyanogen OS looks good, and one of its strengths is 
that you can customise many aspects of its appearance. We weren't too 
happy with Yu's rather vanilla lockscreen, but it can be disabled in the
 settings and the default lockscreen with shortcuts and widgets replaced
 it. There is a row of settings shortcuts in the notifications shade, 
but there's also a button that takes you to another panel with more 
shortcuts (including some duplicates).There are loads of settings
 for lots of tiny little things, such as the appearance of the power 
level indicator in the status bar, how long the capacitive button 
backlight should stay on, and what each of the device's buttons should 
do. You can disable the capacitive buttons altogether and display soft 
buttons on screen, if you would like to for any reason. There are also 
lots of shortcuts, such as double-tapping the status bar to lock the 
phone, or sliding a finger along it to adjust brightness. One of our 
favourite features is sound profiles - just like on old Nokia phones, 
you can set profiles such as Home, Work, Night and Silent.The 
look and feel of the UI is highly customisable. Just like we saw on the 
OnePlus One, you can mix and match elements from different themes. We 
eventually settled on a custom mix of elements from the Android Holo 
theme and Yu's own defaults. Creating a Cyanogen account gives you 
access to more downloadable themes - we could see only five in the app, 
but presumably there will be more in due course.Yu has kept the 
bloatware to a minimum. In addition to all the common Google apps, 
there's a browser called  Yuniverse (which is nothing more than Opera 
with a skin and custom icon), an audio equaliser and effects app called 
AudioFX, a souped-up calculator, and something called Baton that claims 
to "cloudify" any app of your choosing, which means they'll be able to 
sync content across devices even if they don't have that capability on 
their own. The Baton app didn't work at all for us - it forced us to 
download an update from the Play store, which threw up an error stating 
no such app exists. PerformanceWe were eager to see how 
Qualcomm's new CPU performs, and the results were quite positive. The 
Yureka seems to be able to match the Xiaomi Redmi Note in most 
situations - 3DMark gave the Redmi Note a slight advantage in the 720p 
Ice Storm test, but the Yureka stole the lead in the high-resolution Ice
 Storm Extreme test. Quadrant favoured the Yureka, with a score of 
17,586 overall compared to the Redmi Note's 16,083. The Yureka scored 
31,014 in AnTuTu 5.5, while the Redmi Note scored 31,969 in AnTuTu 5.0. 
Keep in mind that these scores apply to the original 3G-only version of 
the Redmi Note, which uses an octa-core MediaTek MT6592 processor and is
 not available anymore.Day-to-day usage was perfectly fine. The 
Yureka is highly polished, and honestly, it felt a lot better to hold 
and use than most Micromax phones that have come our way in the past 
year or even more. The screen was fairly legible in sunlight and though 
it isn't perfectly crisp, it's one of the better ones we've seen on such
 a low-priced phone. Our 1080p 40Mbps MKV sample clip just did 
not play, but other file formats seemed fine. The phone's built-in 
speaker was reasonably loud but we found it to be above par in terms of 
sound quality. On the other hand, the bundled headset isn't very 
comfortable and is no good for music though it should do for making and 
receiving calls.(Click to see full size)Call quality is decent, and we had no complaints.
 The battery lasted 7 hours, 26 minutes in our video loop test, which is
 a little underwhelming by today's standards.What really stood 
out for us was the camera. We were really impressed with the quality of 
images taken by the Yureka. Close-ups were quite brilliant, and in 
daylight, images were perfectly sharp at the focus point even at 100 
percent zoom on a desktop monitor. The phone did take an unusually long 
time to autofocus and it was often simpler to tap the screen and force 
it. This also meant that subjects in motion were challenging to capture.
 On the other hand, we were able to create some surprisingly good 
depth-of-field effects with zero effort.Low-light situations 
definitely challenged the Yureka, and a lot depended on the amount of 
ambient light the sensor was able to pick up in each shot. For that 
reason, wider frames worked better than tight close-ups. The flash 
worked quite well too. Videos came out pretty shaky but otherwise just 
as good as photos.  (Click to see full size)VerdictMicromax appears to have made a
 smart move. Indian buyers seem to be comfortable enough with 
online-only sales now, and if this device is available in sufficient 
quantities without the rigmarole of weekly registrations and flash 
sales, it will be a very solid alternative to the Xiaomi Redmi Note. The
 fact that the 4G version of the Redmi Note costs Rs. 1,000 more than 
the Yureka will also help Micromax win points over its Chinese cousin. The
 Yu Yureka has a lot going for it, and even its minor flaws can be 
overlooked considering the amazingly low price. Yu has identified its 
target audience well and has delivered a very, very attractive product. Cyanogen
 OS is a huge plus - we're just a tiny bit miffed with Micromax for 
throwing a wrench into the OnePlus One launch, but if the Yureka is 
anything to go by, we can probably expect a range of Yu devices that 
live up to the same promise. In 2014, we were repeatedly forced to 
recalibrate our expectations of phones in all price categories thanks to
 disruptive new launches nearly every month. Buyers will be most happy 
to know that there seems to be no sign of this trend slowing down - 2015
 is off to a cracking start indeed.  Micromax Yu Yureka in pictures

The company now wants products that will stand out 
and have strong individual identities - and that means making some bold 
moves. The result is Yu Televentures, an all-new subsidiary company 
which will develop and sell smartphones aimed at the youth market. Yu 
will target tech-savvy but budget-conscious buyers, and is banking on 
catchy names and slogans with "attitude". Interestingly, these phones 
will only be available online. The company also talks up an "ecosystem 
of connected devices" and a "differentiated user experience". 

Yu's
 primary means of achieving this is an exclusive tieup with Cyanogen Inc. to preload Cyanogen 11, a popular Android fork, onto its devices. 
Few Indian companies have bothered really tweaking the software 
experience on the phones they sell (Xolo being a notable exception with 
its Hive UI) and Micromax itself has been known to load devices with 
useless bloat. Cyanogen is polished and powerful, and will help these 
devices stand out.

Yu's first product, the Yureka, is a pretty 
important phone. Cheesy name aside, Yu seems to be gunning for the slot 
formerly occupied by the 3G Xiaomi Redmi Note (Review | Photos). The Yureka's size, 
appearance and specifications are pretty evenly matched with those of 
Xiaomi's big-screen offering, which means they're impressive considering
 both devices' low price tags. 

Look and feelThere's no 
sign of Micromax anywhere on the product or its packaging despite that 
brand's popularity, which means Yu really doesn't want to be associated 
with its parent company. The box is very plain; just brown cardboard 
with Yu and Cyanogen logos printed on all sides. It's almost as 
minimalist as Xiaomi's boxes, but nowhere near as slick.

The Yu 
Yureka itself is not especially slim or light but it does appear better 
constructed than most Micromax phones we've seen before. The front is 
smooth and free of markings other than an outline of the Home button 
printed beneath the screen. The Back and Menu buttons don't have printed
 icons but all three light up when the screen is active. There isn't 
much room around the screen, and the edges are slightly raised to help 
prevent scratching. 

The "moonstone grey" rear has an interesting 
texture - at first glance, it looks exactly like the rough sandpapery 
finish of the OnePlus One's rear, though in this case it's smooth and 
pleasant to hold. For some reason, Yu decided to go with a light blue 
printed logo which looks very odd and cheapens the entire device. The 
camera and flash are tucked away in one corner and the only other thing 
to be seen is a small speaker grille running across the bottom.

The
 power and volume buttons are easily reachable on the sides, and the 
Micro-USB and headset sockets are on the bottom and top respectively. 
Beneath the rear shell you'll find the removable battery, two Micro-SIM 
card slots and a microSD slot. One of the SIMs is hot swappable, but the
 other two slots can only be used if you pop the battery out.

Specifications and softwareThere's
 a lot to like about the Yu Yureka. For starters, there's the brand new 
Qualcomm Snapdragon 615, an octa-core SoC with 64-bit support. Lower 
cost octa-core processors from MediaTek have been around for quite a 
while, but this is a first for Qualcomm. Cyanogen 11 just happens to be 
64-bit capable, which makes that feature worthwhile too. There's 2GB of 
RAM, which is good for a phone in this price bracket. There's 16GB of 
internal storage space and up to 32GB can be added using a microSD card.
 

We're also happy with the screen's 720x1280-pixel resolution. At
 5.5 inches, it's just a little grainy - but again we're reminded that 
we could be doing a lot worse when it comes to sub-Rs. 10,000 
smartphones. The standard wireless protocols are covered: Bluetooth 4.0 
and Wi-Fi b/g/n. LTE is supported on the 2300MHz TDD band currently used
 by Indian service providers as well as the less common 1800MHz FDD 
band.

The Yureka isn't the first device in India to come running 
Cyanogen OS - that distinction goes to the OnePlus One (Review | Photos). For now, it 
looks as though OnePlus won't be able to sell devices running Cyanogen 
anymore, thanks to a rather contentiousÂ  legal dispute between all three 
companies. 

Cyanogen OS looks good, and one of its strengths is 
that you can customise many aspects of its appearance. We weren't too 
happy with Yu's rather vanilla lockscreen, but it can be disabled in the
 settings and the default lockscreen with shortcuts and widgets replaced
 it. There is a row of settings shortcuts in the notifications shade, 
but there's also a button that takes you to another panel with more 
shortcuts (including some duplicates).

There are loads of settings
 for lots of tiny little things, such as the appearance of the power 
level indicator in the status bar, how long the capacitive button 
backlight should stay on, and what each of the device's buttons should 
do. You can disable the capacitive buttons altogether and display soft 
buttons on screen, if you would like to for any reason. There are also 
lots of shortcuts, such as double-tapping the status bar to lock the 
phone, or sliding a finger along it to adjust brightness. One of our 
favourite features is sound profiles - just like on old Nokia phones, 
you can set profiles such as Home, Work, Night and Silent.

The 
look and feel of the UI is highly customisable. Just like we saw on the 
OnePlus One, you can mix and match elements from different themes. We 
eventually settled on a custom mix of elements from the Android Holo 
theme and Yu's own defaults. Creating a Cyanogen account gives you 
access to more downloadable themes - we could see only five in the app, 
but presumably there will be more in due course.

Yu has kept the 
bloatware to a minimum. In addition to all the common Google apps, 
there's a browser called  Yuniverse (which is nothing more than Opera 
with a skin and custom icon), an audio equaliser and effects app called 
AudioFX, a souped-up calculator, and something called Baton that claims 
to "cloudify" any app of your choosing, which means they'll be able to 
sync content across devices even if they don't have that capability on 
their own. The Baton app didn't work at all for us - it forced us to 
download an update from the Play store, which threw up an error stating 
no such app exists. 

PerformanceWe were eager to see how 
Qualcomm's new CPU performs, and the results were quite positive. The 
Yureka seems to be able to match the Xiaomi Redmi Note in most 
situations - 3DMark gave the Redmi Note a slight advantage in the 720p 
Ice Storm test, but the Yureka stole the lead in the high-resolution Ice
 Storm Extreme test. Quadrant favoured the Yureka, with a score of 
17,586 overall compared to the Redmi Note's 16,083. The Yureka scored 
31,014 in AnTuTu 5.5, while the Redmi Note scored 31,969 in AnTuTu 5.0. 
Keep in mind that these scores apply to the original 3G-only version of 
the Redmi Note, which uses an octa-core MediaTek MT6592 processor and is
 not available anymore.

Day-to-day usage was perfectly fine. The 
Yureka is highly polished, and honestly, it felt a lot better to hold 
and use than most Micromax phones that have come our way in the past 
year or even more. The screen was fairly legible in sunlight and though 
it isn't perfectly crisp, it's one of the better ones we've seen on such
 a low-priced phone. 

Our 1080p 40Mbps MKV sample clip just did 
not play, but other file formats seemed fine. The phone's built-in 
speaker was reasonably loud but we found it to be above par in terms of 
sound quality. On the other hand, the bundled headset isn't very 
comfortable and is no good for music though it should do for making and 
receiving calls.

(Click to see full size)

Call quality is decent, and we had no complaints.
 The battery lasted 7 hours, 26 minutes in our video loop test, which is
 a little underwhelming by today's standards.

What really stood 
out for us was the camera. We were really impressed with the quality of 
images taken by the Yureka. Close-ups were quite brilliant, and in 
daylight, images were perfectly sharp at the focus point even at 100 
percent zoom on a desktop monitor. The phone did take an unusually long 
time to autofocus and it was often simpler to tap the screen and force 
it. This also meant that subjects in motion were challenging to capture.
 On the other hand, we were able to create some surprisingly good 
depth-of-field effects with zero effort.

Low-light situations 
definitely challenged the Yureka, and a lot depended on the amount of 
ambient light the sensor was able to pick up in each shot. For that 
reason, wider frames worked better than tight close-ups. The flash 
worked quite well too. Videos came out pretty shaky but otherwise just 
as good as photos.  

(Click to see full size)

VerdictMicromax appears to have made a
 smart move. Indian buyers seem to be comfortable enough with 
online-only sales now, and if this device is available in sufficient 
quantities without the rigmarole of weekly registrations and flash 
sales, it will be a very solid alternative to the Xiaomi Redmi Note. The
 fact that the 4G version of the Redmi Note costs Rs. 1,000 more than 
the Yureka will also help Micromax win points over its Chinese cousin. 

The
 Yu Yureka has a lot going for it, and even its minor flaws can be 
overlooked considering the amazingly low price. Yu has identified its 
target audience well and has delivered a very, very attractive product. 

Cyanogen
 OS is a huge plus - we're just a tiny bit miffed with Micromax for 
throwing a wrench into the OnePlus One launch, but if the Yureka is 
anything to go by, we can probably expect a range of Yu devices that 
live up to the same promise. 

In 2014, we were repeatedly forced to 
recalibrate our expectations of phones in all price categories thanks to
 disruptive new launches nearly every month. Buyers will be most happy 
to know that there seems to be no sign of this trend slowing down - 2015
 is off to a cracking start indeed. 

