OnePlus 2 First Impressions

The much anticipated OnePlus 2 is finally here and thus begin the 
inevitable comparisons with last year's much-hyped OnePlus One. The 
Chinese smartphone manufacturer came out of nowhere to gain a lot of 
attention with the OnePlus One, a device that took over the mantel of 
geeks' choice of a value smartphone, what with the Nexus 6 (Review | Pictures) disappointing
 consumers with its crazy price tag. All that buzz didn't translate into
 a lot of sales, with the OnePlus CEO recently revealing that the 
company sold a modest 1.5 million units of the OnePlus One. (Also see:  OnePlus 2 full specifications) The
 OnePlus 2 would definitely aim to better that, and ahead of the launch,
 expectations were sky high. And the company seems to have lived up to 
those expectations, if initial reactions to the OnePlus 2 package and 
price are any indications. In case you've been living under a rock and 
don't know already, here's a recap of the OnePlus 2's specifications. The
 OnePlus 2 comes with a 5.5-inch in-cell display with a full-HD 
(1080x1920 pixel) resolution and a 1500:1 contrast ratio. It is powered 
by a 64-bit octa-core Snapdragon 810 v2.1 SoC clocked at 1.8GHz and 
coupled with an Adreno 430 GPU alongside 4GB of LPDDR4 RAM and 64GB 
internal storage. It sports dual 4G Nano-SIM cards and the new USB 
Type-C 
connector.
 The OnePlus 2 features a 13-megapixel rear camera with a 1.3-micron 
sensor, laser autofocus, dual-LED flash, f/2.0 aperture, 4K video 
recording, RAW image support, and OIS, apart from a 5-megapixel 
front-facing camera. It runs on a 3300mAh battery, and has a fingerprint
 sensor on the home button. It weighs 175 grams. All this will be 
available to users at Rs. 24,999 from August 11 via Amazon India. The 
phone will be sold via the invite system and a 16GB OnePlus 2 with 3GB 
of LPDDR4 RAM will be made available later this year at Rs. 22,999. (Also see:  OnePlus 2 Invites System Is Live, Here's How You Can Reserve a Spot)What
 the OnePlus 2 lacks however are features like NFC connectivity and 
Qualcomm Quick Charge, despite the upcoming Android Pay rollout and 
use of a Snapdragon 810 SoC. It will be interesting to see just how much
 of a deal-breaker this is for consumers.The OnePlus 2 features 
the Sandstone Black finish made famous by its predecessor, but there's 
no mistaking one phone for the other. For starters, the OnePlus 2 has no
 Cyanogen branding at the back, because the smartphone now ships with 
company's own OxygenOS 2.0, which is essentially Android 5.1.1 with some
 amount of customisations. The rear camera assembly with the sensor and 
the flash has also been shifted vertically downwards. (Also see: OnePlus 2 vs OnePlus One) The
 OnePlus 2 is noticeably heavier than the OnePlus One and that may prove
 to be a problem for some. The edges now have a metallic finish to them,
 which gives the phone a better in-hand feel, especially for those who 
don't like the Sandstone finish, which extends to the edges in the 
OnePlus One. The other big change with the OnePlus 2 of course is
 the fact that it now runs OxygenOS out-of-the-box. There were some 
stability issues with Cyanogen OS that its predecessor ran, but 
considering OxygenOS itself is a relatively new entrant, we are curious 
to see how it performs on an everyday basis. Viewing 
angles and outdoor legibility on the OnePlus 2 display are good, and we 
didn't encounter any performance issues in the extremely limited tasks 
we performed. Of course the real test will come when we use all the 
features of the phone including its camera to use in the real world as 
part of our detailed review process and share our findings with you. 
Stay tuned to NDTV Gadgets for a full review of the OnePlus 2. OnePlus 2: First Look

 

(Also see:  OnePlus 2 full specifications)

 

The
 OnePlus 2 would definitely aim to better that, and ahead of the launch,
 expectations were sky high. And the company seems to have lived up to 
those expectations, if initial reactions to the OnePlus 2 package and 
price are any indications. In case you've been living under a rock and 
don't know already, here's a recap of the OnePlus 2's specifications.

 

The
 OnePlus 2 comes with a 5.5-inch in-cell display with a full-HD 
(1080x1920 pixel) resolution and a 1500:1 contrast ratio. It is powered 
by a 64-bit octa-core Snapdragon 810 v2.1 SoC clocked at 1.8GHz and 
coupled with an Adreno 430 GPU alongside 4GB of LPDDR4 RAM and 64GB 
internal storage. It sports dual 4G Nano-SIM cards and the new USB 
Type-C 
connector.


 The OnePlus 2 features a 13-megapixel rear camera with a 1.3-micron 
sensor, laser autofocus, dual-LED flash, f/2.0 aperture, 4K video 
recording, RAW image support, and OIS, apart from a 5-megapixel 
front-facing camera. It runs on a 3300mAh battery, and has a fingerprint
 sensor on the home button. It weighs 175 grams. All this will be 
available to users at Rs. 24,999 from August 11 via Amazon India. The 
phone will be sold via the invite system and a 16GB OnePlus 2 with 3GB 
of LPDDR4 RAM will be made available later this year at Rs. 22,999.

 

(Also see:  OnePlus 2 Invites System Is Live, Here's How You Can Reserve a Spot)

What
 the OnePlus 2 lacks however are features like NFC connectivity and 
Qualcomm Quick Charge, despite the upcoming Android Pay rollout and 
use of a Snapdragon 810 SoC. It will be interesting to see just how much
 of a deal-breaker this is for consumers.

The OnePlus 2 features 
the Sandstone Black finish made famous by its predecessor, but there's 
no mistaking one phone for the other. For starters, the OnePlus 2 has no
 Cyanogen branding at the back, because the smartphone now ships with 
company's own OxygenOS 2.0, which is essentially Android 5.1.1 with some
 amount of customisations. The rear camera assembly with the sensor and 
the flash has also been shifted vertically downwards.

 

(Also see: OnePlus 2 vs OnePlus One)

 

The
 OnePlus 2 is noticeably heavier than the OnePlus One and that may prove
 to be a problem for some. The edges now have a metallic finish to them,
 which gives the phone a better in-hand feel, especially for those who 
don't like the Sandstone finish, which extends to the edges in the 
OnePlus One.

 The other big change with the OnePlus 2 of course is
 the fact that it now runs OxygenOS out-of-the-box. There were some 
stability issues with Cyanogen OS that its predecessor ran, but 
considering OxygenOS itself is a relatively new entrant, we are curious 
to see how it performs on an everyday basis.

 

Viewing 
angles and outdoor legibility on the OnePlus 2 display are good, and we 
didn't encounter any performance issues in the extremely limited tasks 
we performed. Of course the real test will come when we use all the 
features of the phone including its camera to use in the real world as 
part of our detailed review process and share our findings with you. 
Stay tuned to NDTV Gadgets for a full review of the OnePlus 2.

