Jolla Smartphone with Sailfish OS Review: A Taste of What Might Have Been

Nokia's
 rise and fall has been well documented by now, with the story 
punctuated by multiple missed opportunities and poor decisions. The 
unfortunate company, once a dominant force in the technology world and 
now owned by Microsoft, never managed to bring out a modern 
touch-friendly smartphone platform of its own and suffered as 
competition from Apple and Android manufacturers decimated it.There
 was hope, for a brief while, in the form of Maemo, a new Linux-based 
platform which later became MeeGo. Nokia pulled the plug on it after 
just a few devices were released, most notably the innovative N9. While 
the company placed its next bet on Microsoft's Windows Phone platform, 
the team responsible for MeeGo left and started their own company in 
order to continue their work. The result is Jolla, and its first 
commercial smartphone of the same name, running the totally new Sailfish
 OS.  This is a unique phone, and has been designed as such. 
There really is no mistaking it for any other device. We're curious to 
see whether this works in its favour or against it, and whether we have a
 new viable alternative to Android in the mass-market space.Look and feelThis
 is definitely one of the strangest-looking phones we've seen in a long 
time. It looks like a biscuit sandwich, with two distinct plastic halves
 laid up against each other. As part of the quirky design, the front 
half has rounded sides and is flat on the top and bottom, while the 
"other half" is the opposite. This creates a few uncomfortable corners 
which you'll feel when trying to stretch your thumb across the screen.The
 front face is totally blank. There's a lot of plastic surrounding the 
screen despite the fact that there are no navigation buttons on the 
front. A notification LED is cleverly disguised on the lower front; 
you'll only see it when it lights up. The physical buttons and ports are
 all in predictable places on the top and right, but all software 
interaction happens using gestures.This is definitely not the 
slimmest or lightest phone around, at 9.9mm and 141g, and you'll feel 
the difference if you're coming from anything relatively modern. As it 
turns out, the "other half" on the rear is a convex shell covering the 
front half's bulge; the whole thing doesn't split apart into two pieces.
 The shells aren't just there for colour; they have a purpose. Each one 
has an embedded NFC tag which is recognised by the Jolla when the shell 
is snapped on. You'll see a message on screen asking you if you want to 
act on it - initial shells will offer "ambiences", or themes comprising 
of a wallpaper, highlight colour and sound profile. Future versions 
might include Web links, bundled content, or anything an accessory maker
 can imagine.Beneath the very plain-looking shell, you'll find a 
microSD card slot, a Micro-SIM slot (with a unique rubber flap to hold 
the card in place) and the battery. Jolla definitely wants users to have
 control over their devices, in the spirit of early Nokia smartphones. 
It looks like this phone will be easy to take apart and repair, which 
might appeal to some buyers more than slimness does.SoftwareThe
 former Nokia team might have had some robust open-source software at 
their disposal, but all the user-facing interface elements of MeeGo are 
still owned by Nokia and so the team had to come up with a whole new 
look and model for interaction. The results are fairly unique - little 
bits seem borrowed from here and there - but the overall effect is 
completely fresh. Those familiar with iOS and Android will find 
themselves struggling a little, but we eventually felt we could get used
 to the Sailfish way of doing things.The lock screen looks fairly
 conventional - more like that of Windows Phone than any other OS. 
There's a large clock on the bottom and space on top for notifications. 
You'll see icons for Wi-Fi and Bluetooth if they're on, but for some 
reason the battery level and signal strength indicators are hidden. You 
unlock the phone by sliding upwards, at which point you see those two 
important indicators slide into view as if they were right below the 
fold.The first homescreen looks very much like what we've seen on
 new BlackBerry devices running the BB 10 OS. There are tiles for up to 
nine running apps: most native apps use their space to display small 
snippets of information, but Android apps can only display thumbnails. 
You can of course tap any of them to jump to an app, but in an 
interesting twist, you can also swipe left or right to execute quick 
commands. For example, swipe to the right on the phone dialler's tile to
 go directly to the keypad, or swipe left to go to your contacts list. 
The Settings app's tile shows icons for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular data 
and airplane mode. There is space for four icons at the bottom of
 the first homescreen - swipe upwards to scroll to subsequent pages, 
which are ordinary-looking icon grids. Android and native apps are mixed
 together and you can drag and drop to rearrange icons with the usual 
long-tap gesture.Since there's no Home button, you'll have to 
learn a lot of gestures, shortcuts and cues. First of all, glowing bars 
at the top or bottom of the screen indicate that you can swipe up or 
down to reveal menus. These are called pulley menus, which means that as
 you pull them open, you'll drag each option past a highlight bar. If 
you release the drag gesture while an option is highlighted, it will 
immediately be selected. In this way, you can execute commands with one 
fluid swipe, rather than opening the menu, scrolling around and then 
selecting what you want. It takes a little while to get used to the 
motions, but once you do, pulley menus will feel like an idea that 
someone really should have had years ago.If you're in an app and 
move from page to page, you'll see a series of dots in the upper left 
corner. This means you can swipe to go back to where you were (but you 
can't swipe in the opposite direction to go forward again, which is 
often disconcerting). You can swipe inwards from either side of the 
screen while within an app to reveal the first homescreen - release 
before a point to cancel the gesture, or follow through to minimise your
 app to the homescreen. This lets you quickly check information that 
might be displayed in an app's tile without disturbing whatever you're 
doing.Swiping downwards from the top of the screen will quit the 
current app (you can disable this behaviour) or lock the screen if 
you're on any homescreen. Swiping upwards will bring up the Events view 
no matter where you are, even the lockscreen - this is equivalent to the
 notifications shade on other platforms. All apps run fullscreen -
 there isn't a status bar or any on-screen controls. Only Android apps 
force a black band to accommodate a Back button, which can't always be 
replicated with gestures. The interface works pretty well, but it's 
often frustrating because so much of it goes against the conventions 
that other mobile OS platforms have tacitly standardised.There is
 so much to discover, and as you go along you'll find a lot of things 
which make so much sense that you'll wonder why no one has thought of 
them before, but also a surprising number of things which don't make any
 sense at all. Pulley menus are absolutely fantastic, but are 
implemented inconsistently. There are no quick shortcuts for important 
settings such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, but you have neat ways to set 
alarms and full control over what gets backed up, where and when.You
 can't simply change wallpapers; you have to create "ambiences" 
consisting of a wallpaper, accent colour and sound profile - this is the
 same package each "other half" shell can store and transmit in order to
 change your phone's appearance and behaviour.Most of the 
built-in apps are very well designed, both in terms of appearance and 
usability. However, you'll always have to use neutral wallpaper images 
so that the pervasive transparency doesn't become irritating. The native
 keyboard is transparent and uses very thin key labels, so it's easy to 
lose them against busy wallpapers.The browser is sparse - the 
address bar is hidden on the tab selection page, and the large toolbar 
disappears when you scroll around, leaving you with nothing but page 
content. The Media app can only handle music - you'll need to download 
an app for videos - and similarly, the Documents app seems to only be 
able to handle text. The People app has a neat sorting mechanism, and 
the calendar, notes and other built-in apps are also well designed.The
 camera app is rather sparse - there are settings for the flash, 
on-screen grid, white balance, ISO, AF and timer. You have to dip into 
the menu overlay to switch to video recording or use the front camera, 
which seems unnecessary. To change the photo resolution, you have to go 
through the main Settings app.HardwareThe physical 
aspects of the Jolla phone are considerably less exciting. There's a 
1.4GHz dual-core Snapdragon 400 SoC, which is fairly commonplace, but 
the 4.5-inch 540x960-pixel screen is a disappointment. It's noticeably 
grainy and really doesn't offer the best quality. Other phones in this 
price range definitely feel a lot more appealing when you use them.You
 get 1GB of RAM and 16GB of storage space which of course is expandable 
thanks to the microSD card slot. The rear camera is an 8-megapixel unit 
and the front one takes 2-megapixel images. There's Wi-Fi and Bluetooth,
 plus NFC. You get 3G connectivity but no LTE. Usage and performanceWe
 took a while to become accustomed to Sailfish OS's quirks, and getting 
around wasn't always intuitive. Over the course of a few days, we became
 more familiar with it but there were still plenty of times that we 
wished for a simple Home button. The live apps view is handy, but 
doesn't adequately replace an app switcher - and it really only works 
well with native apps, of which there aren't that many.The Jolla 
store seems well populated, but not all the apps are useful. There are a
 few simple games and utilities. We found most of what we needed using 
third-party Android stores such as Apotide, which worked flawlessly. 
Android pps do have some limitations though - any data they need will 
have to be stored in a specific Android folder on the phone; they won't 
be able to see photos, music or other files you have in the general 
storage pool. Services that rely on Google APIs are also not guaranteed 
to work - this will be a familiar problem for BlackBerry users.The
 Sailfish UI was fairly responsive during our test period. Some apps 
took a long while to load - there is an animation of the app jumping 
into place as a live tile on the first homescreen before it then fills 
the whole screen, which is extremely annoying. The Sailfish keyboard is 
laid out well and has a scrolling row of suggested words, though 
autocorrect accuracy is not at par with iOS or Android.Interestingly,
 you can delete most of the built-in apps including the calculator, 
email client, clock and media player - this is in stark contrast to 
manufacturers who insist on preloading dozens of apps which waste space.Battery
 life was quite good - in informal testing, the Jolla device lasted 
through a full day with heavy use of Wi-Fi and constantly jumping 
between apps. Our formal battery test uses an Android app to loop video -
 the Jolla lasted 5 hours, 33 minutes which might not be entirely 
indicative of its potential performance using an optimised native app. 
The same holds true for benchmark tests. The browser-based SunSpider and
 Kraken tests should hold up though, and we got scores of 1517.1 and 
14320.3ms respectively. These are just about average, and you can get 
better raw performance from other devices in this price class.Only
 one of the grilles on the device's bottom is a speaker, and we found 
that sound was just about adequate - not especially loud or rich, but at
 least it didn't distort. The screen suffered a bit in sunlight, and 
viewing angles were not all that impressive either.The camera 
surprised us with its quality. We were happy with the images we were 
able to take both outdoors and indoors. Colours, textures and details 
were accurate for the most part. The autofocus took time and sometimes 
failed, and there was just a little shutter lag. Low-light performance 
was not that good, and the camera was nearly useless unless there was at
 least some light falling directly on our subjects. Videos also came out
 well. VerdictIt takes a lot of guts to go up against 
dozens of major international and local Android manufacturers with 
something brand new and unfamiliar. We think Jolla's biggest challenge 
will be educating customers. As others have proved before (we're looking
 at the Nokia X platform in particular), it's very easy to go wrong. 
Buyers who like what they see at first but aren't necessarily familiar 
with smartphone terminology or features, will be extremely upset if they
 find they can't do simple things that everyone else can. We 
always like having competition, but there might not be room in the 
Indian market (or any other market in the world) for an Android 
alternative right now. The Jolla device is different and fresh, but 
ultimately doesn't deliver the experience that Android has made possible
 at this price level. The hardware is quirky at best and awkward all 
around, while the software is often frustrating.With an 
online-only sales route and a price of Rs. 16,499, it's likely that Jolla will only find customers
 who are explicitly searching for it, and that's a good thing. Gadget 
enthusiasts (or Maemo fans) who want to give the Jolla phone a try will 
probably enjoy using it for a while. As a primary device for everyday 
users, however, this might not be the best choice.Jolla Smartphone in pictures

Nokia's
 rise and fall has been well documented by now, with the story 
punctuated by multiple missed opportunities and poor decisions. The 
unfortunate company, once a dominant force in the technology world and 
now owned by Microsoft, never managed to bring out a modern 
touch-friendly smartphone platform of its own and suffered as 
competition from Apple and Android manufacturers decimated it.

There
 was hope, for a brief while, in the form of Maemo, a new Linux-based 
platform which later became MeeGo. Nokia pulled the plug on it after 
just a few devices were released, most notably the innovative N9. While 
the company placed its next bet on Microsoft's Windows Phone platform, 
the team responsible for MeeGo left and started their own company in 
order to continue their work. The result is Jolla, and its first 
commercial smartphone of the same name, running the totally new Sailfish
 OS.  

This is a unique phone, and has been designed as such. 
There really is no mistaking it for any other device. We're curious to 
see whether this works in its favour or against it, and whether we have a
 new viable alternative to Android in the mass-market space.

Look and feelThis
 is definitely one of the strangest-looking phones we've seen in a long 
time. It looks like a biscuit sandwich, with two distinct plastic halves
 laid up against each other. As part of the quirky design, the front 
half has rounded sides and is flat on the top and bottom, while the 
"other half" is the opposite. This creates a few uncomfortable corners 
which you'll feel when trying to stretch your thumb across the screen.

The
 front face is totally blank. There's a lot of plastic surrounding the 
screen despite the fact that there are no navigation buttons on the 
front. A notification LED is cleverly disguised on the lower front; 
you'll only see it when it lights up. The physical buttons and ports are
 all in predictable places on the top and right, but all software 
interaction happens using gestures.

This is definitely not the 
slimmest or lightest phone around, at 9.9mm and 141g, and you'll feel 
the difference if you're coming from anything relatively modern. As it 
turns out, the "other half" on the rear is a convex shell covering the 
front half's bulge; the whole thing doesn't split apart into two pieces.
 The shells aren't just there for colour; they have a purpose. Each one 
has an embedded NFC tag which is recognised by the Jolla when the shell 
is snapped on. You'll see a message on screen asking you if you want to 
act on it - initial shells will offer "ambiences", or themes comprising 
of a wallpaper, highlight colour and sound profile. Future versions 
might include Web links, bundled content, or anything an accessory maker
 can imagine.

Beneath the very plain-looking shell, you'll find a 
microSD card slot, a Micro-SIM slot (with a unique rubber flap to hold 
the card in place) and the battery. Jolla definitely wants users to have
 control over their devices, in the spirit of early Nokia smartphones. 
It looks like this phone will be easy to take apart and repair, which 
might appeal to some buyers more than slimness does.

SoftwareThe
 former Nokia team might have had some robust open-source software at 
their disposal, but all the user-facing interface elements of MeeGo are 
still owned by Nokia and so the team had to come up with a whole new 
look and model for interaction. The results are fairly unique - little 
bits seem borrowed from here and there - but the overall effect is 
completely fresh. Those familiar with iOS and Android will find 
themselves struggling a little, but we eventually felt we could get used
 to the Sailfish way of doing things.

The lock screen looks fairly
 conventional - more like that of Windows Phone than any other OS. 
There's a large clock on the bottom and space on top for notifications. 
You'll see icons for Wi-Fi and Bluetooth if they're on, but for some 
reason the battery level and signal strength indicators are hidden. You 
unlock the phone by sliding upwards, at which point you see those two 
important indicators slide into view as if they were right below the 
fold.

The first homescreen looks very much like what we've seen on
 new BlackBerry devices running the BB 10 OS. There are tiles for up to 
nine running apps: most native apps use their space to display small 
snippets of information, but Android apps can only display thumbnails. 
You can of course tap any of them to jump to an app, but in an 
interesting twist, you can also swipe left or right to execute quick 
commands. For example, swipe to the right on the phone dialler's tile to
 go directly to the keypad, or swipe left to go to your contacts list. 
The Settings app's tile shows icons for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular data 
and airplane mode. 

There is space for four icons at the bottom of
 the first homescreen - swipe upwards to scroll to subsequent pages, 
which are ordinary-looking icon grids. Android and native apps are mixed
 together and you can drag and drop to rearrange icons with the usual 
long-tap gesture.

Since there's no Home button, you'll have to 
learn a lot of gestures, shortcuts and cues. First of all, glowing bars 
at the top or bottom of the screen indicate that you can swipe up or 
down to reveal menus. These are called pulley menus, which means that as
 you pull them open, you'll drag each option past a highlight bar. If 
you release the drag gesture while an option is highlighted, it will 
immediately be selected. In this way, you can execute commands with one 
fluid swipe, rather than opening the menu, scrolling around and then 
selecting what you want. It takes a little while to get used to the 
motions, but once you do, pulley menus will feel like an idea that 
someone really should have had years ago.

If you're in an app and 
move from page to page, you'll see a series of dots in the upper left 
corner. This means you can swipe to go back to where you were (but you 
can't swipe in the opposite direction to go forward again, which is 
often disconcerting). You can swipe inwards from either side of the 
screen while within an app to reveal the first homescreen - release 
before a point to cancel the gesture, or follow through to minimise your
 app to the homescreen. This lets you quickly check information that 
might be displayed in an app's tile without disturbing whatever you're 
doing.

Swiping downwards from the top of the screen will quit the 
current app (you can disable this behaviour) or lock the screen if 
you're on any homescreen. Swiping upwards will bring up the Events view 
no matter where you are, even the lockscreen - this is equivalent to the
 notifications shade on other platforms. 

All apps run fullscreen -
 there isn't a status bar or any on-screen controls. Only Android apps 
force a black band to accommodate a Back button, which can't always be 
replicated with gestures. The interface works pretty well, but it's 
often frustrating because so much of it goes against the conventions 
that other mobile OS platforms have tacitly standardised.

There is
 so much to discover, and as you go along you'll find a lot of things 
which make so much sense that you'll wonder why no one has thought of 
them before, but also a surprising number of things which don't make any
 sense at all. Pulley menus are absolutely fantastic, but are 
implemented inconsistently. There are no quick shortcuts for important 
settings such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, but you have neat ways to set 
alarms and full control over what gets backed up, where and when.

You
 can't simply change wallpapers; you have to create "ambiences" 
consisting of a wallpaper, accent colour and sound profile - this is the
 same package each "other half" shell can store and transmit in order to
 change your phone's appearance and behaviour.

Most of the 
built-in apps are very well designed, both in terms of appearance and 
usability. However, you'll always have to use neutral wallpaper images 
so that the pervasive transparency doesn't become irritating. The native
 keyboard is transparent and uses very thin key labels, so it's easy to 
lose them against busy wallpapers.

The browser is sparse - the 
address bar is hidden on the tab selection page, and the large toolbar 
disappears when you scroll around, leaving you with nothing but page 
content. The Media app can only handle music - you'll need to download 
an app for videos - and similarly, the Documents app seems to only be 
able to handle text. The People app has a neat sorting mechanism, and 
the calendar, notes and other built-in apps are also well designed.

The
 camera app is rather sparse - there are settings for the flash, 
on-screen grid, white balance, ISO, AF and timer. You have to dip into 
the menu overlay to switch to video recording or use the front camera, 
which seems unnecessary. To change the photo resolution, you have to go 
through the main Settings app.

HardwareThe physical 
aspects of the Jolla phone are considerably less exciting. There's a 
1.4GHz dual-core Snapdragon 400 SoC, which is fairly commonplace, but 
the 4.5-inch 540x960-pixel screen is a disappointment. It's noticeably 
grainy and really doesn't offer the best quality. Other phones in this 
price range definitely feel a lot more appealing when you use them.

You
 get 1GB of RAM and 16GB of storage space which of course is expandable 
thanks to the microSD card slot. The rear camera is an 8-megapixel unit 
and the front one takes 2-megapixel images. There's Wi-Fi and Bluetooth,
 plus NFC. You get 3G connectivity but no LTE. 

Usage and performanceWe
 took a while to become accustomed to Sailfish OS's quirks, and getting 
around wasn't always intuitive. Over the course of a few days, we became
 more familiar with it but there were still plenty of times that we 
wished for a simple Home button. The live apps view is handy, but 
doesn't adequately replace an app switcher - and it really only works 
well with native apps, of which there aren't that many.

The Jolla 
store seems well populated, but not all the apps are useful. There are a
 few simple games and utilities. We found most of what we needed using 
third-party Android stores such as Apotide, which worked flawlessly. 
Android pps do have some limitations though - any data they need will 
have to be stored in a specific Android folder on the phone; they won't 
be able to see photos, music or other files you have in the general 
storage pool. Services that rely on Google APIs are also not guaranteed 
to work - this will be a familiar problem for BlackBerry users.

The
 Sailfish UI was fairly responsive during our test period. Some apps 
took a long while to load - there is an animation of the app jumping 
into place as a live tile on the first homescreen before it then fills 
the whole screen, which is extremely annoying. The Sailfish keyboard is 
laid out well and has a scrolling row of suggested words, though 
autocorrect accuracy is not at par with iOS or Android.

Interestingly,
 you can delete most of the built-in apps including the calculator, 
email client, clock and media player - this is in stark contrast to 
manufacturers who insist on preloading dozens of apps which waste space.

Battery
 life was quite good - in informal testing, the Jolla device lasted 
through a full day with heavy use of Wi-Fi and constantly jumping 
between apps. Our formal battery test uses an Android app to loop video -
 the Jolla lasted 5 hours, 33 minutes which might not be entirely 
indicative of its potential performance using an optimised native app. 
The same holds true for benchmark tests. The browser-based SunSpider and
 Kraken tests should hold up though, and we got scores of 1517.1 and 
14320.3ms respectively. These are just about average, and you can get 
better raw performance from other devices in this price class.

Only
 one of the grilles on the device's bottom is a speaker, and we found 
that sound was just about adequate - not especially loud or rich, but at
 least it didn't distort. The screen suffered a bit in sunlight, and 
viewing angles were not all that impressive either.

The camera 
surprised us with its quality. We were happy with the images we were 
able to take both outdoors and indoors. Colours, textures and details 
were accurate for the most part. The autofocus took time and sometimes 
failed, and there was just a little shutter lag. Low-light performance 
was not that good, and the camera was nearly useless unless there was at
 least some light falling directly on our subjects. Videos also came out
 well. 

VerdictIt takes a lot of guts to go up against 
dozens of major international and local Android manufacturers with 
something brand new and unfamiliar. We think Jolla's biggest challenge 
will be educating customers. As others have proved before (we're looking
 at the Nokia X platform in particular), it's very easy to go wrong. 
Buyers who like what they see at first but aren't necessarily familiar 
with smartphone terminology or features, will be extremely upset if they
 find they can't do simple things that everyone else can. 

We 
always like having competition, but there might not be room in the 
Indian market (or any other market in the world) for an Android 
alternative right now. The Jolla device is different and fresh, but 
ultimately doesn't deliver the experience that Android has made possible
 at this price level. The hardware is quirky at best and awkward all 
around, while the software is often frustrating.

With an 
online-only sales route and a price of Rs. 16,499, it's likely that Jolla will only find customers
 who are explicitly searching for it, and that's a good thing. Gadget 
enthusiasts (or Maemo fans) who want to give the Jolla phone a try will 
probably enjoy using it for a while. As a primary device for everyday 
users, however, this might not be the best choice.

