Micromax A110 Superfone Canvas 2 review

With big screen phones, popularly known as phablets, gaining prominence,
 and the increasing demand for budget alternatives, Micromax decided to 
upgrade its Canvas line-up, within two months of launching its first 
5-inch phone, the A100. The successor to the A100, the A110 or Canvas 2 
features a Dual Core processor, an IPS panel, and an upgraded 
8-megapixel camera.  Here's our review of the device.HardwareThe
 front of the phone looks strikingly similar to the Samsung Galaxy S III 
and the Note II, except for the absence of a physical home button. The 
chrome speaker grill, front camera and sensors are positioned similar to
 that of the Note 2. There are markings for three capacitive touch 
buttons below the display. There's no Micromax branding on the front of 
the phone.  There's a chrome trim around the phone that was a little too
 shiny for our liking. On the right side, there's a big power key, while
 the volume rocker sits on the left hand side. Both these keys also 
sport a chrome finish, but kind of lack refinement, in our opinion. The 
Micro-USB port and the 3.5mm audio ports sit on the top of the phone. 
The back cover is made of plastic and has a matte finish. The material 
used feels durable, and offers a good grip. The camera lens, however, 
protrudes out towards the top, and feels awkward. There's a dual LED 
flash besides the camera. The back also sports Micromax branding and a 
speaker.In terms of hardware, the device is powered by a 1GHz 
dual-core processor with 512MB RAM, and has 4GB internal storage 
expandable up to 32GB with microSD card.The Micromax A110 is a 
dual-SIM smartphone and supports GSM SIM card in both the slots. The SIM
 Card slots and a slot for the micro SD card hide behind the back cover 
just above the battery slot. Unfortunately, the SIM cards and the Micro 
SD cards are not hot-swappable and you'll have to take the battery out 
if you want to replace either of them.DisplayThe Micromax 
A110 comes with a 5-inch 262k colour capacitive touch screen with an IPS
 panel sporting a resolution of 480x854 pixels. We found the screen 
resolution to be pretty low for a device of this size, and the graphics 
and text appeared to be less sharp. The viewing angles looked good, and 
the under-sun visibility on the phone was decent, though we found the 
screen to be highly reflective.CameraThe 8-megapixel 
autofocus shooter takes decent images in daylight, although we feel that
 colour reproduction could have been better. Also, we observed that 
pictures taken in low-light conditions and indoors (without the use of 
the LED flash) were a bit grainy. The dual-led flash fulfills its 
intended purpose. The quality of videos captured through the back camera
 was average. Overall, we feel that the phone's good for casual 
photography.A daylight shot taken with the Micromax A110 Canvas 2There is also a 0.3-megapixel front camera, which 
takes average pictures, and can be used for video conferencing. We wish 
the phone had a dedicated camera button to help click a quick picture.Software/ InterfaceThe
 Micromax Canvas 2 runs Android 4.0.4 (Ice Cream Sandwich). Micromax has
 skinned some elements of the user interface, such as the app icons and 
the notification tray. The notification tray includes toggles for 
settings such as Wi-Fi, Brightness, Rotation, Bluetooth, GPS, Data and 
profiles (for alerts and other notifications). Similar to other ICS 
devices, there are five customisable home screens that can be filled 
with app shortcuts and widgets. Micromax has also included some of its 
own apps including its own apps and content store, M! Store, and 
services store, M! Zone, in addition to its messaging app, HookUp, and 
friends locator app, M! Buddy and a few games (Fruit Devil, Cricket 
Fever). The handset also offers FM Radio.The handset sports three 
capacitive buttons - a Menu key, Home button and a Back key. Long 
pressing the Home key opens the app-switcher for switching between 
open/previously accessed apps. To be honest, we find the menu button 
redundant. Perhaps, Micromax could allow users to use the menu button 
exclusively as the app-switcher, on the lines of newer HTC phones.Also, 
the phone could do with stock icons, and we're not sure why Micromax 
decided to skin them. We also noticed that Micromax's app store was 
offering apps such as Viber and Nimbuzz, which are otherwise free, as 
paid apps.We checked with Micromax and they informed that their app 
store offers ad-free versions of the apps.During our use of the 
phone we noticed some minor lag, especially while playing games, but 
other than that, we'd rate our overall experience as above average. We 
expected a bit more from a phone that runs on a dual-core processor. 
We're not sure if the phone would get updated to Jelly Bean, which 
offers a smoother user experience compared to ICS.Performance/ Battery LifeThe
 phone is powered by a 1GHz dual-core processor that is a MediaTek 
chip, and has 512MB of RAM on board. We did not encounter any crashes 
while working on the phone and multitasking was comfortable. We did 
notice some lag while navigating through the menu, and while playing 
some games. We were not able to play 1020p HD video clips, and 720p 
clips also stuttered. The phone also doesn't support .avi videos 
natively, but that can be easily fixed by downloading third-party video 
players.The phone comes with the native Android browser and 
renders all webpages well. The phone doesn't come with Adobe Flash. The 
speaker on the phone delivers good quality sound but volume levels are 
low. Also, since the speaker is located at the back, the volume levels 
further decrease when the phone lies on its back.  The phone 
surprisingly doesn't include an ambient light-sensor, so there's no 
setting for automatic brightness, and the user would need to manually 
set brightness levels for the screen.Call quality was good. The phone is a dual-SIM GSM phone with support for one active and the other in active-standby mode.The
 Micromax Canvas 2 comes with a 2000mAh battery and we were satisfied 
with the backup that it offered. We were able to get around 7 hours of 
video playback, even with the display on full brightness levels. With 
intermediate usage during the day, including playing games, a few calls,
 and e-mail and Twitter notifications turned on, we were able to get 
about one-and-a-half days of backup. The phone would easily give 7-9 
hours of usage on a single charge.VerdictThe Micromax 
A110- Canvas 2 is a decent upgrade to the A100. A 5-inch screen phone at
 a price point of Rs 9,990 is indeed a value for money proposition. We 
wish Micromax could have offered a better screen, and shipped this phone
 with Android 4.1 Jelly Bean. Micromax has already announced the 
successor to the Canvas 2, the A116 or Canvas HD, which is expected to 
be available in February. The Canvas HD features a Quad-core processor 
(again a MediaTek chip), a 5-inch 720p display and Android 4.1 Jelly 
Bean. It's expected to be priced below Rs. 15,000. So if you can spend a 
little more, we'd recommend waiting for the Canvas HD. There's also the 
Karbonn S1 Titanium, which also has a quad-core processor, and sports a 
4.5-inch qHD (960x540) multi-touch capacitive touch display and runs 
Android 4.1 Jelly Bean. The phone's been priced at Rs 10,990 and 
pre-bookings have already started. But we'd wait until we've had a 
chance to run that unit through our tests before recommending.Micromax A110 Superfone Canvas 2: First look

In terms of hardware, the device is powered by a 1GHz 
dual-core processor with 512MB RAM, and has 4GB internal storage 
expandable up to 32GB with microSD card.

The Micromax A110 is a 
dual-SIM smartphone and supports GSM SIM card in both the slots. The SIM
 Card slots and a slot for the micro SD card hide behind the back cover 
just above the battery slot. Unfortunately, the SIM cards and the Micro 
SD cards are not hot-swappable and you'll have to take the battery out 
if you want to replace either of them.

DisplayThe Micromax 
A110 comes with a 5-inch 262k colour capacitive touch screen with an IPS
 panel sporting a resolution of 480x854 pixels. We found the screen 
resolution to be pretty low for a device of this size, and the graphics 
and text appeared to be less sharp. The viewing angles looked good, and 
the under-sun visibility on the phone was decent, though we found the 
screen to be highly reflective.

CameraThe 8-megapixel 
autofocus shooter takes decent images in daylight, although we feel that
 colour reproduction could have been better. Also, we observed that 
pictures taken in low-light conditions and indoors (without the use of 
the LED flash) were a bit grainy. The dual-led flash fulfills its 
intended purpose. The quality of videos captured through the back camera
 was average. Overall, we feel that the phone's good for casual 
photography.

A daylight shot taken with the Micromax A110 Canvas 2

There is also a 0.3-megapixel front camera, which 
takes average pictures, and can be used for video conferencing. We wish 
the phone had a dedicated camera button to help click a quick picture.

Software/ InterfaceThe
 Micromax Canvas 2 runs Android 4.0.4 (Ice Cream Sandwich). Micromax has
 skinned some elements of the user interface, such as the app icons and 
the notification tray. The notification tray includes toggles for 
settings such as Wi-Fi, Brightness, Rotation, Bluetooth, GPS, Data and 
profiles (for alerts and other notifications). Similar to other ICS 
devices, there are five customisable home screens that can be filled 
with app shortcuts and widgets. 

Micromax has also included some of its 
own apps including its own apps and content store, M! Store, and 
services store, M! Zone, in addition to its messaging app, HookUp, and 
friends locator app, M! Buddy and a few games (Fruit Devil, Cricket 
Fever). The handset also offers FM Radio.

The handset sports three 
capacitive buttons - a Menu key, Home button and a Back key. Long 
pressing the Home key opens the app-switcher for switching between 
open/previously accessed apps. To be honest, we find the menu button 
redundant. Perhaps, Micromax could allow users to use the menu button 
exclusively as the app-switcher, on the lines of newer HTC phones.Also, 
the phone could do with stock icons, and we're not sure why Micromax 
decided to skin them. We also noticed that Micromax's app store was 
offering apps such as Viber and Nimbuzz, which are otherwise free, as 
paid apps.We checked with Micromax and they informed that their app 
store offers ad-free versions of the apps.

During our use of the 
phone we noticed some minor lag, especially while playing games, but 
other than that, we'd rate our overall experience as above average. We 
expected a bit more from a phone that runs on a dual-core processor. 
We're not sure if the phone would get updated to Jelly Bean, which 
offers a smoother user experience compared to ICS.

Performance/ Battery LifeThe
 phone is powered by a 1GHz dual-core processor that is a MediaTek 
chip, and has 512MB of RAM on board. We did not encounter any crashes 
while working on the phone and multitasking was comfortable. We did 
notice some lag while navigating through the menu, and while playing 
some games. We were not able to play 1020p HD video clips, and 720p 
clips also stuttered. The phone also doesn't support .avi videos 
natively, but that can be easily fixed by downloading third-party video 
players.

The phone comes with the native Android browser and 
renders all webpages well. The phone doesn't come with Adobe Flash. The 
speaker on the phone delivers good quality sound but volume levels are 
low. Also, since the speaker is located at the back, the volume levels 
further decrease when the phone lies on its back.  The phone 
surprisingly doesn't include an ambient light-sensor, so there's no 
setting for automatic brightness, and the user would need to manually 
set brightness levels for the screen.

Call quality was good. The phone is a dual-SIM GSM phone with support for one active and the other in active-standby mode.

The
 Micromax Canvas 2 comes with a 2000mAh battery and we were satisfied 
with the backup that it offered. We were able to get around 7 hours of 
video playback, even with the display on full brightness levels. With 
intermediate usage during the day, including playing games, a few calls,
 and e-mail and Twitter notifications turned on, we were able to get 
about one-and-a-half days of backup. The phone would easily give 7-9 
hours of usage on a single charge.

VerdictThe Micromax 
A110- Canvas 2 is a decent upgrade to the A100. A 5-inch screen phone at
 a price point of Rs 9,990 is indeed a value for money proposition. We 
wish Micromax could have offered a better screen, and shipped this phone
 with Android 4.1 Jelly Bean. Micromax has already announced the 
successor to the Canvas 2, the A116 or Canvas HD, which is expected to 
be available in February. The Canvas HD features a Quad-core processor 
(again a MediaTek chip), a 5-inch 720p display and Android 4.1 Jelly 
Bean. It's expected to be priced below Rs. 15,000. So if you can spend a 
little more, we'd recommend waiting for the Canvas HD. There's also the 
Karbonn S1 Titanium, which also has a quad-core processor, and sports a 
4.5-inch qHD (960x540) multi-touch capacitive touch display and runs 
Android 4.1 Jelly Bean. The phone's been priced at Rs 10,990 and 
pre-bookings have already started. But we'd wait until we've had a 
chance to run that unit through our tests before recommending.

