Intex Aqua Octa review

Intex is not a name usually associated with high-end, high quality 
phones. In fact, it's almost exclusively associated with cheap assembled
 PCs - Intex has been churning out budget-friendly keyboards, mice, 
cabinets and power supplies since the beginning of the PC revolution in 
India. Over the years, the company has branched out into accessories 
such as headphones, routers, webcams, speakers, and MP3 players. Of
 late, with the PC industry declining, it should come as no surprise 
that Intex has jumped into the mobile market. Its strategy seems to be 
the same as ever: capture the low-end and undercut better known brands 
with a flood of products that might not look or feel premium, but are 
cheap enough to make people give them a chance. Intex has over 80 phone 
models listed on its website; most of them priced below Rs. 7,000. The 
Aqua Octa is one of only a few models priced above Rs. 12,000 and is 
second only to the full-HD Intex Aqua i7 model.Intex launched the Aqua 
Octa at Rs. 19,999 and it is currently selling online for only a few 
hundred rupees less than that. Its defining feature is a "true octa-core
 processor", which the company claims is a first. While there are 
already several phones with eight physical CPU cores on the market, 
these are generally built with a cluster of four high-powered cores and 
another cluster of four low-powered ones, which do not operate 
simultaneously. ARM calls this arrangement big.Little, and it 
allows phones designed around its Cortex architecture to switch between 
the two quad-core clusters based on what the user currently requires. 
When the phone is idle, there's no need for the beefier cores to be 
sucking up power, so the weaker, more efficient ones take over.Intex,
 on the other hand, has found an ARM design in which all eight cores can
 operate at the same time. While "octa-core" is certainly an impressive 
advertising line, we didn't have to dig deep to discover that these are 
not particularly powerful cores, and thus having eight of them is not 
necessarily going to be a whole lot better than current quad-core 
processors. Still, we're intrigued about what this will mean for 
performance and for battery life.Look and feelAs with most
 Android phones, the Intex Aqua Octa is a large rectangular slab with 
rounded corners. The front face is all black with a metallic rim. The 
screen stretches pretty much from edge to edge on the sides, but there's
 space for the speaker grille and camera on top and the standard row of 
capacitive buttons on the bottom. The rear is flat except for a slight 
bump in the upper left corner where the camera lens protrudes. There are
 two speaker grilles in opposite corners and an ugly grey and red logo 
right in the middle. The Aqua Octa is available in black and 
white. Our white review unit had a silver back cover with white strips 
above and below it. The colour combinations might be a bit inspired, but
 there's no mistaking this for an iPhone. The construction quality is 
pretty good, but there are a few areas where things could be improved. 
The phone looks good from the front and feels hefty in the hand, but on 
closer examination, it's apparent that the plastic is cheap. The 
buttons, especially the power button, feel crude and flimsy. There's a 
bit of misalignment where the Micro-USB port is placed, forcing us to 
wiggle the plug to seat it properly each time. Even the bundled charger,
 headset and cover feel cheap.  Some phones have thin plastic 
back covers that peel off, and others have metal ones that require a 
clasp. The Aqua Octa has both - you need to peel off the bottom plastic 
strip and then the large metal plate slides out. Beneath it, you see the
 large battery cavity and slots for the two SIM cards and a microSD 
card. The primary SIM card slot accepts standard SIMs, but the 
secondary one needs a Micro-SIM. All three slots are positioned such 
that you have to take the battery out to get to them.Bucking the 
current trend, the Aqua Octa's power/standby button is on the top edge. 
It isn't too difficult to get to, but its shallowness combined with the 
general blocky design of the phone make it difficult to wake the phone 
one hand when it is lying on a table.Features and specificationsIntex
 might be happy to use the phrase "true octa core processor" all over 
its press and advertising materials, but the name of the chip in 
question is somewhat downplayed. It's a Mediatek MT6592, which was 
launched in late November 2013. Bumping up the number of cores should 
have an immediate effect on multitasking, since individual software 
threads don't have to compete for CPU time. However that's going to put a
 huge strain on the battery unless power consumption can be throttled 
extremely efficiently. The processor is a complete 
System-on-a-Chip (SoC). The CPU cores run at 1.7GHz and there's also an 
integrated Mali 450-MP graphics GPU. Mediatek lists a number of other 
integrated units, such as 802.11n Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS, FM radio, 
Miracast, and logic for the phone's sensors and cameras. The cellular 
modem is also built in, and supports two GSM SIM cards with 3G data.Considering
 the flagship CPU and price, we were expecting a full-HD 1080p screen, 
but the Aqua Octa takes a big step backwards for this current 
generation, and comes with a 720x1280-pixel screen instead. This is the 
kind of configuration decision that keeps costs down and helps regulate 
battery life, but it's disappointing. The 720p screen is fairly crisp, but at 6 inches, 1080p would have made a noticeable difference. The main problem we have with the screen is that Intex hasn't 
figured out how to scale that resolution to that screen size, which 
means every part of the Android interface is highly magnified. Icons, 
buttons, menu entries and even the status bar on top are way too large. 
In fact it feels like a special interface created for elderly people or 
those with mobility impairments. In apps such as the messaging app, you 
can barely see one or two messages on screen and the keyboard is simply 
massive. It's a huge waste of potential.The rest of the 
specifications are pretty normal for phones in this price range. There's
 2GB of RAM and 16GB of built-in storage. microSD cards up to 32GB in 
capacity are supported. The battery is rated at 2300mAh, which Intex 
says is good enough for six hours of talktime or 180 hours on standby.SoftwareNone
 of the current crop of budget Android phones seems to run anything 
newer than version 4.2.2 of the operating system, and the Aqua Octa is 
no exception. Intex has undertaken a fair amount of cosmetic 
customisation, and you'll notice that the icons are all brightly 
coloured squares with their top-right corners rounded off.  The built-in
 apps all have their own icons, but anything you download will have its 
own icon displayed inside a grey square with a matching rounded corner, 
which is not only visually distracting but adds to the feeling that 
visual elements are far too large. A few apps are bundled 
with the Aqua Octa: NQ Vault, NQ Security, Intex Play, Intex Cloud, Auto
 Call Record, and several others. NQ Vault lets you password-protect 
your SMS app, call logs, contacts, photos and videos. NQ Security 
includes a virus scanner (which pops up offering to scan your device 
every  time you plug it into a PC), a call and message blocker, contacts
 backup, and anti-theft module which lets you pinpoint your phone's GPS 
location (but not the usual remote alarm and wipe features, which you 
have to pay to unlock). There's yet another call blocking app called 
Firewall, for no apparent reason.Intex Cloud offers 5GB of free 
online storage, and there doesn't seem to be any time limit on it. Intex
 Zone is a simple screen with a few links to Intex's website after sales
 service line, and shortcuts to a few other apps which for some reason 
aren't available through the main menu. The first of these is Auto Call 
Record, which does what its name suggests with zero indication to the 
person on the other end of the link. The second is Intex Play, a rather 
crude app store clone which has a number of mediocre-looking titles and 
no search function. Then there's Intex Lifebox, which is nothing but a 
list of premium SMS services for things like astrology predictions and 
sports updates.If all of that wasn't enough, there are quite a 
few other bundled apps as well. These include Zapak, Hungama, 
Getit, Bigflix, GreetZAP, OLX, Newshunt, and WeChat. Opera Mini makes an
 appearance instead of Google Chrome, and there are a few games that you
 can play five times before being asked to pay Rs. 50 to purchase. Overall,
 we were disappointed to see so much software bloat. While the security 
apps are conceivably useful, very few of the other preloaded ones are. 
What's worse is that not all of them are removable. CameraThere
 isn't much to say about the camera app, which should be familiar to any
 Android user. You get a panorama mode, motion tracking mode, smile 
shot, voice-triggered capture, a self timer, and 30-shot burst mode. 
Photos taken in bright daylight are actually pretty great. Details are 
sharp and colours are vivid. There is a bit of noise when you look at 
the full-sized images on a big screen, but these pictures are totally 
fine for sharing and posting online. Even the front camera is 
surprisingly good. Fans of selfie-style portraits will appreciate this 
the most.(Click to see full size)Where the camera falters is in low light. Images are grainy and it really isn't possible to make out any detail at all. Videos
 are also surprisingly sharp, although we detected heavy compression in 
the clips we recorded. The default video resolution is 720p but you can 
shoot at 1080p after diving into the settings.PerformancePhones
 like the Aqua Octa cost only about half as much as the latest and 
greatest phones from international brands, and so our expectations are 
tempered when we test them, no matter which buzzwords get thrown about 
in their ads and on their spec sheets.  In addition, Mediatek processors
 are generally considered to be less powerful than those from prominent 
names in the ARM world such as Qualcomm. In terms of day-to-day 
use, we did notice that getting around Android's various screens and 
menus was consistently zippy, and there wasn't much lag when opening 
apps such as the camera. We tried going beyond our usual test processes 
to stress out this CPU, by running loads of apps in the background, 
playing a few games, and loading up Opera Mini with over 20 tabs open. 
Even with all that going on, there was barely any hint of a slowdown 
when switching apps or cycling through browser tabs. It isn't possible 
to attribute this solely to the fact that the CPU has eight cores, but 
it does mean that the phone is a strong overall performer and has a 
decent balance of hardware components - especially considering its 
price. The Aqua Octa therefore surprised us all with its test 
results. This is one fast phone! It scored 27,691 in AnTuTu and 12,289 
in Quadrant. The Quadrant CPU sub-score of 48,729 was particularly 
noteworthy. On the other hand, our graphics tests proved disappointing. 
The phone scored only 6,641 in 3DMark's 720p Ice Storm runthrough and 
managed to push out only 13 frames per second in our GFXbench test.Most
 of our audio and video playback tests went well. The phone had no 
problem with 1080p videos except our highest quality H.264 sample clip. 
Audio from the twin speakers on the rear was loud, but not particularly 
high quality. All kinds of music sounded harsh and lower frequencies 
were almost entirely cut off. Voices in video clips weren't too bad. 
Speaking of sound quality, the bundled headset is one of the worst we've
 ever had to endure.Call quality wasn't all that great. In our limited testing both indoors and out, voices seemed to sound muffled on both ends. The
 battery lasted for just a shade over five hours in our video loop test,
 which isn't all that much compared to most of today's higher end 
handsets.  VerdictThere is a lot to like about the 
Mediatek MT6592 processor, but the product that Intex has created around
 it is a mixed bag. The step down to a 720x1280 screen might have been 
necessary because of the battery life or the weak graphics subsystem, 
but the fact is that it does not do justice to the rest of the hardware.
 We wish this phone had come with a smaller screen, perhaps something 
around the 4.7-inch mark. That would have set it apart in its own 
category, instead of making it look weak next to a wide selection of 
full-HD phones available from various manufacturers, such as the Xolo Q3000, Micromax Canvas Turbo, and Intex's own Aqua i7. If you're not concerned with large full-HD screens, alternatives at this price point also include the Sony Xperia C and Lenovo Ideaphone S920.If you want a phone that seriously doesn't lag even under
 heavy load, you might want to consider this one. It's a relatively 
affordable phone with a big screen, which is what a lot of people seem 
to want these days. However its most noteworthy feature isn't one that's
 really tangible, and so if faced with the choice of an eight-core 
processor or a full-HD screen at this price point, a lot of people will 
choose the latter.
Intex Aqua Octa in pictures
 

Intex is not a name usually associated with high-end, high quality 
phones. In fact, it's almost exclusively associated with cheap assembled
 PCs - Intex has been churning out budget-friendly keyboards, mice, 
cabinets and power supplies since the beginning of the PC revolution in 
India. Over the years, the company has branched out into accessories 
such as headphones, routers, webcams, speakers, and MP3 players. 

Of
 late, with the PC industry declining, it should come as no surprise 
that Intex has jumped into the mobile market. Its strategy seems to be 
the same as ever: capture the low-end and undercut better known brands 
with a flood of products that might not look or feel premium, but are 
cheap enough to make people give them a chance. Intex has over 80 phone 
models listed on its website; most of them priced below Rs. 7,000. The 
Aqua Octa is one of only a few models priced above Rs. 12,000 and is 
second only to the full-HD Intex Aqua i7 model.

Intex launched the Aqua 
Octa at Rs. 19,999 and it is currently selling online for only a few 
hundred rupees less than that. Its defining feature is a "true octa-core
 processor", which the company claims is a first. While there are 
already several phones with eight physical CPU cores on the market, 
these are generally built with a cluster of four high-powered cores and 
another cluster of four low-powered ones, which do not operate 
simultaneously. 

ARM calls this arrangement big.Little, and it 
allows phones designed around its Cortex architecture to switch between 
the two quad-core clusters based on what the user currently requires. 
When the phone is idle, there's no need for the beefier cores to be 
sucking up power, so the weaker, more efficient ones take over.

Intex,
 on the other hand, has found an ARM design in which all eight cores can
 operate at the same time. While "octa-core" is certainly an impressive 
advertising line, we didn't have to dig deep to discover that these are 
not particularly powerful cores, and thus having eight of them is not 
necessarily going to be a whole lot better than current quad-core 
processors. Still, we're intrigued about what this will mean for 
performance and for battery life.

Look and feelAs with most
 Android phones, the Intex Aqua Octa is a large rectangular slab with 
rounded corners. The front face is all black with a metallic rim. The 
screen stretches pretty much from edge to edge on the sides, but there's
 space for the speaker grille and camera on top and the standard row of 
capacitive buttons on the bottom. The rear is flat except for a slight 
bump in the upper left corner where the camera lens protrudes. There are
 two speaker grilles in opposite corners and an ugly grey and red logo 
right in the middle. 

The Aqua Octa is available in black and 
white. Our white review unit had a silver back cover with white strips 
above and below it. The colour combinations might be a bit inspired, but
 there's no mistaking this for an iPhone. The construction quality is 
pretty good, but there are a few areas where things could be improved. 
The phone looks good from the front and feels hefty in the hand, but on 
closer examination, it's apparent that the plastic is cheap. The 
buttons, especially the power button, feel crude and flimsy. There's a 
bit of misalignment where the Micro-USB port is placed, forcing us to 
wiggle the plug to seat it properly each time. Even the bundled charger,
 headset and cover feel cheap.  

Some phones have thin plastic 
back covers that peel off, and others have metal ones that require a 
clasp. The Aqua Octa has both - you need to peel off the bottom plastic 
strip and then the large metal plate slides out. Beneath it, you see the
 large battery cavity and slots for the two SIM cards and a microSD 
card. The primary SIM card slot accepts standard SIMs, but the 
secondary one needs a Micro-SIM. All three slots are positioned such 
that you have to take the battery out to get to them.

Bucking the 
current trend, the Aqua Octa's power/standby button is on the top edge. 
It isn't too difficult to get to, but its shallowness combined with the 
general blocky design of the phone make it difficult to wake the phone 
one hand when it is lying on a table.

Features and specificationsIntex
 might be happy to use the phrase "true octa core processor" all over 
its press and advertising materials, but the name of the chip in 
question is somewhat downplayed. It's a Mediatek MT6592, which was 
launched in late November 2013. Bumping up the number of cores should 
have an immediate effect on multitasking, since individual software 
threads don't have to compete for CPU time. However that's going to put a
 huge strain on the battery unless power consumption can be throttled 
extremely efficiently. 

The processor is a complete 
System-on-a-Chip (SoC). The CPU cores run at 1.7GHz and there's also an 
integrated Mali 450-MP graphics GPU. Mediatek lists a number of other 
integrated units, such as 802.11n Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPS, FM radio, 
Miracast, and logic for the phone's sensors and cameras. The cellular 
modem is also built in, and supports two GSM SIM cards with 3G data.

Considering
 the flagship CPU and price, we were expecting a full-HD 1080p screen, 
but the Aqua Octa takes a big step backwards for this current 
generation, and comes with a 720x1280-pixel screen instead. This is the 
kind of configuration decision that keeps costs down and helps regulate 
battery life, but it's disappointing. 

The 720p screen is fairly crisp, but at 6 inches, 1080p would have made a noticeable difference. The main problem we have with the screen is that Intex hasn't 
figured out how to scale that resolution to that screen size, which 
means every part of the Android interface is highly magnified. Icons, 
buttons, menu entries and even the status bar on top are way too large. 
In fact it feels like a special interface created for elderly people or 
those with mobility impairments. In apps such as the messaging app, you 
can barely see one or two messages on screen and the keyboard is simply 
massive. It's a huge waste of potential.

The rest of the 
specifications are pretty normal for phones in this price range. There's
 2GB of RAM and 16GB of built-in storage. microSD cards up to 32GB in 
capacity are supported. The battery is rated at 2300mAh, which Intex 
says is good enough for six hours of talktime or 180 hours on standby.

SoftwareNone
 of the current crop of budget Android phones seems to run anything 
newer than version 4.2.2 of the operating system, and the Aqua Octa is 
no exception. Intex has undertaken a fair amount of cosmetic 
customisation, and you'll notice that the icons are all brightly 
coloured squares with their top-right corners rounded off.  The built-in
 apps all have their own icons, but anything you download will have its 
own icon displayed inside a grey square with a matching rounded corner, 
which is not only visually distracting but adds to the feeling that 
visual elements are far too large. 

A few apps are bundled 
with the Aqua Octa: NQ Vault, NQ Security, Intex Play, Intex Cloud, Auto
 Call Record, and several others. NQ Vault lets you password-protect 
your SMS app, call logs, contacts, photos and videos. NQ Security 
includes a virus scanner (which pops up offering to scan your device 
every  time you plug it into a PC), a call and message blocker, contacts
 backup, and anti-theft module which lets you pinpoint your phone's GPS 
location (but not the usual remote alarm and wipe features, which you 
have to pay to unlock). There's yet another call blocking app called 
Firewall, for no apparent reason.

Intex Cloud offers 5GB of free 
online storage, and there doesn't seem to be any time limit on it. Intex
 Zone is a simple screen with a few links to Intex's website after sales
 service line, and shortcuts to a few other apps which for some reason 
aren't available through the main menu. The first of these is Auto Call 
Record, which does what its name suggests with zero indication to the 
person on the other end of the link. The second is Intex Play, a rather 
crude app store clone which has a number of mediocre-looking titles and 
no search function. Then there's Intex Lifebox, which is nothing but a 
list of premium SMS services for things like astrology predictions and 
sports updates.

If all of that wasn't enough, there are quite a 
few other bundled apps as well. These include Zapak, Hungama, 
Getit, Bigflix, GreetZAP, OLX, Newshunt, and WeChat. Opera Mini makes an
 appearance instead of Google Chrome, and there are a few games that you
 can play five times before being asked to pay Rs. 50 to purchase. 

Overall,
 we were disappointed to see so much software bloat. While the security 
apps are conceivably useful, very few of the other preloaded ones are. 
What's worse is that not all of them are removable. 

CameraThere
 isn't much to say about the camera app, which should be familiar to any
 Android user. You get a panorama mode, motion tracking mode, smile 
shot, voice-triggered capture, a self timer, and 30-shot burst mode. 
Photos taken in bright daylight are actually pretty great. Details are 
sharp and colours are vivid. There is a bit of noise when you look at 
the full-sized images on a big screen, but these pictures are totally 
fine for sharing and posting online. Even the front camera is 
surprisingly good. Fans of selfie-style portraits will appreciate this 
the most.

(Click to see full size)

Where the camera falters is in low light. Images are grainy and it really isn't possible to make out any detail at all. 

Videos
 are also surprisingly sharp, although we detected heavy compression in 
the clips we recorded. The default video resolution is 720p but you can 
shoot at 1080p after diving into the settings.

PerformancePhones
 like the Aqua Octa cost only about half as much as the latest and 
greatest phones from international brands, and so our expectations are 
tempered when we test them, no matter which buzzwords get thrown about 
in their ads and on their spec sheets.  In addition, Mediatek processors
 are generally considered to be less powerful than those from prominent 
names in the ARM world such as Qualcomm. 

In terms of day-to-day 
use, we did notice that getting around Android's various screens and 
menus was consistently zippy, and there wasn't much lag when opening 
apps such as the camera. We tried going beyond our usual test processes 
to stress out this CPU, by running loads of apps in the background, 
playing a few games, and loading up Opera Mini with over 20 tabs open. 
Even with all that going on, there was barely any hint of a slowdown 
when switching apps or cycling through browser tabs. It isn't possible 
to attribute this solely to the fact that the CPU has eight cores, but 
it does mean that the phone is a strong overall performer and has a 
decent balance of hardware components - especially considering its 
price. 

The Aqua Octa therefore surprised us all with its test 
results. This is one fast phone! It scored 27,691 in AnTuTu and 12,289 
in Quadrant. The Quadrant CPU sub-score of 48,729 was particularly 
noteworthy. On the other hand, our graphics tests proved disappointing. 
The phone scored only 6,641 in 3DMark's 720p Ice Storm runthrough and 
managed to push out only 13 frames per second in our GFXbench test.

Most
 of our audio and video playback tests went well. The phone had no 
problem with 1080p videos except our highest quality H.264 sample clip. 
Audio from the twin speakers on the rear was loud, but not particularly 
high quality. All kinds of music sounded harsh and lower frequencies 
were almost entirely cut off. Voices in video clips weren't too bad. 
Speaking of sound quality, the bundled headset is one of the worst we've
 ever had to endure.

Call quality wasn't all that great. In our limited testing both indoors and out, voices seemed to sound muffled on both ends. 

The
 battery lasted for just a shade over five hours in our video loop test,
 which isn't all that much compared to most of today's higher end 
handsets. 

 VerdictThere is a lot to like about the 
Mediatek MT6592 processor, but the product that Intex has created around
 it is a mixed bag. The step down to a 720x1280 screen might have been 
necessary because of the battery life or the weak graphics subsystem, 
but the fact is that it does not do justice to the rest of the hardware.
 We wish this phone had come with a smaller screen, perhaps something 
around the 4.7-inch mark. That would have set it apart in its own 
category, instead of making it look weak next to a wide selection of 
full-HD phones available from various manufacturers, such as the Xolo Q3000, Micromax Canvas Turbo, and Intex's own Aqua i7. If you're not concerned with large full-HD screens, alternatives at this price point also include the Sony Xperia C and Lenovo Ideaphone S920.

If you want a phone that seriously doesn't lag even under
 heavy load, you might want to consider this one. It's a relatively 
affordable phone with a big screen, which is what a lot of people seem 
to want these days. However its most noteworthy feature isn't one that's
 really tangible, and so if faced with the choice of an eight-core 
processor or a full-HD screen at this price point, a lot of people will 
choose the latter.



