Android 5.0 Lollipop Review: A Sweet Upgrade

Android's sweet new "Lollipop" flavor brings security improvements and 
easier ways to view and respond to notifications. The new Google 
software for mobile devices even lets you lend out your phone without 
worrying about a friend circulating your naked selfies on Facebook.I 
tested Lollipop on Google's new Nexus 6 phone, which comes out this 
week. I can only hope that as other phones get the upgrade over time, it
 will be as good as what you get on the Nexus.It's a shame many 
phone manufacturers that use Android believe they have to tweak it 
extensively to make the software theirs and not Google's. Mucking around
 with it only confuses customers and steers app developers toward 
working on iPhone versions first, where there is more uniformity - and 
thus incentive to incorporate the latest features.Assuming your phone maker is running Lollipop in its purest form, here's what you'll get:NotificationsYou
 used to have to pull down the notification tray from the top, as you 
would a window shade. With Lollipop, notifications appear in the center 
of the lock screen. You can expand messages and reply right from the 
lock screen.If you've set up a passcode - more on that in a bit -
 you'll be prompted to enter it before composing that reply. You also 
have the option to block all notifications or just those from specific 
apps if you're worried about privacy. Or you can choose to hide 
sensitive content. In those cases, you'll see you got an email or text, 
but you won't see who sent it or what the message says.You can 
also choose "priority" mode and get notifications only from apps you 
mark as priority. In that mode, you can also choose to accept calls and 
texts only from known contacts or favorites. You still see all incoming 
calls or messages if you're looking, but you're not disrupted by 
vibrations or rings.SecurityToo often, I've turned off the
 passcode on my Android phone because I get tired of entering it every 
time I pick it up. With Lollipop, you can keep your phone unlocked when 
it's near a trusted device of your choosing - say, a Bluetooth-enabled 
car or an Android smartwatch. Bluetooth range can extend 30 feet or 
more, so be sure you trust your friends if you step away without your 
phone. Or delete those naked selfies first.With Lollipop, Android
 also joins Apple's iOS 8 software in encrypting data by default. This 
is important if your phone is lost or stolen.Multiple profilesIf
 you lend your phone out, or share it with a family member, you'll now 
have profile options. You can set up to four profiles, each with its own
 settings, contacts, photos and apps. Each user can be at a different 
level on "Candy Crush Saga." Or a friend can download it without having 
it clutter your apps list. Likewise, guests can use their own email and 
Facebook accounts - not yours.Some options are disabled if you're
 not the owner. For instance, your kid won't be able to restore the 
phone to factory settings and wipe out all your data. But friends or 
family can update your apps and accept permissions on your behalf. It's 
your choice whether they can make calls and text, as they would still be
 using your phone number. The browser and app store don't come with 
parental controls, so it isn't meant for unsupervised use. And no 
secondary profile will keep your kid from smearing grape jelly on the 
screen.ShortcutsLollipop adds several shortcuts above the 
notification tray. You can get quick access to the flashlight and the 
setting for airplane mode, something some Android manufacturers have 
added, but not all. There's also a new "Cast screen" button to send 
video from your phone to a TV with an Android TV streaming device. 
Unfortunately, you can't change the options. Those without an Android TV
 device won't need "Cast screen," but might want a screen-rotation lock 
instead, for instance.The new Android software also removes some 
of the distinctions between apps and content. Previous versions of 
Android offered ways to scroll through open apps to pick which goes to 
the foreground. Now, individual tabs in the Chrome browser and 
individual documents in Google Docs appear separately, so you can go 
straight to your content without having to go to that app first. Other 
app developers will be able to enable this feature, too.And the restLollipop
 comes with an updated Calendar app that integrates with your Gmail 
service so that flight reservations, concert tickets and other 
confirmation emails get automatically turned into calendar events. The 
app is also more visually pleasing and fun. Keywords such as "concerts,"
 "dentist" and "brunch" trigger appropriate graphics.Still 
missing, though, is the ability to decide whether individual apps can 
access your location. I might want Google Maps but not Starbucks to have
 my location. Apple's iOS software lets you choose on an app-by-app 
basis, but it's all or nothing with Android.Nonetheless, Lollipop is a worthy upgrade that I hope will come to your Android device - unfettered - soon. 

I 
tested Lollipop on Google's new Nexus 6 phone, which comes out this 
week. I can only hope that as other phones get the upgrade over time, it
 will be as good as what you get on the Nexus.

It's a shame many 
phone manufacturers that use Android believe they have to tweak it 
extensively to make the software theirs and not Google's. Mucking around
 with it only confuses customers and steers app developers toward 
working on iPhone versions first, where there is more uniformity - and 
thus incentive to incorporate the latest features.

Assuming your phone maker is running Lollipop in its purest form, here's what you'll get:

NotificationsYou
 used to have to pull down the notification tray from the top, as you 
would a window shade. With Lollipop, notifications appear in the center 
of the lock screen. You can expand messages and reply right from the 
lock screen.

If you've set up a passcode - more on that in a bit -
 you'll be prompted to enter it before composing that reply. You also 
have the option to block all notifications or just those from specific 
apps if you're worried about privacy. Or you can choose to hide 
sensitive content. In those cases, you'll see you got an email or text, 
but you won't see who sent it or what the message says.

You can 
also choose "priority" mode and get notifications only from apps you 
mark as priority. In that mode, you can also choose to accept calls and 
texts only from known contacts or favorites. You still see all incoming 
calls or messages if you're looking, but you're not disrupted by 
vibrations or rings.

SecurityToo often, I've turned off the
 passcode on my Android phone because I get tired of entering it every 
time I pick it up. With Lollipop, you can keep your phone unlocked when 
it's near a trusted device of your choosing - say, a Bluetooth-enabled 
car or an Android smartwatch. Bluetooth range can extend 30 feet or 
more, so be sure you trust your friends if you step away without your 
phone. Or delete those naked selfies first.

With Lollipop, Android
 also joins Apple's iOS 8 software in encrypting data by default. This 
is important if your phone is lost or stolen.

Multiple profilesIf
 you lend your phone out, or share it with a family member, you'll now 
have profile options. You can set up to four profiles, each with its own
 settings, contacts, photos and apps. Each user can be at a different 
level on "Candy Crush Saga." Or a friend can download it without having 
it clutter your apps list. Likewise, guests can use their own email and 
Facebook accounts - not yours.

Some options are disabled if you're
 not the owner. For instance, your kid won't be able to restore the 
phone to factory settings and wipe out all your data. But friends or 
family can update your apps and accept permissions on your behalf. It's 
your choice whether they can make calls and text, as they would still be
 using your phone number. The browser and app store don't come with 
parental controls, so it isn't meant for unsupervised use. And no 
secondary profile will keep your kid from smearing grape jelly on the 
screen.

ShortcutsLollipop adds several shortcuts above the 
notification tray. You can get quick access to the flashlight and the 
setting for airplane mode, something some Android manufacturers have 
added, but not all. There's also a new "Cast screen" button to send 
video from your phone to a TV with an Android TV streaming device. 
Unfortunately, you can't change the options. Those without an Android TV
 device won't need "Cast screen," but might want a screen-rotation lock 
instead, for instance.

The new Android software also removes some 
of the distinctions between apps and content. Previous versions of 
Android offered ways to scroll through open apps to pick which goes to 
the foreground. Now, individual tabs in the Chrome browser and 
individual documents in Google Docs appear separately, so you can go 
straight to your content without having to go to that app first. Other 
app developers will be able to enable this feature, too.

And the restLollipop
 comes with an updated Calendar app that integrates with your Gmail 
service so that flight reservations, concert tickets and other 
confirmation emails get automatically turned into calendar events. The 
app is also more visually pleasing and fun. Keywords such as "concerts,"
 "dentist" and "brunch" trigger appropriate graphics.

Still 
missing, though, is the ability to decide whether individual apps can 
access your location. I might want Google Maps but not Starbucks to have
 my location. Apple's iOS software lets you choose on an app-by-app 
basis, but it's all or nothing with Android.

Nonetheless, Lollipop is a worthy upgrade that I hope will come to your Android device - unfettered - soon.

