iOS 7 review

The changes to Apple's iOS software became apparent as I drove to the 
headquarters of the company's rival, Google. As I navigated using 
Apple's mapping app, I noticed one of my favorite attributes was 
missing: the directions for each next turn presented in green boxes that
 resemble highway signs.Many of the changes in Apple's operating 
system for mobile devices are cosmetic. Gone are three-dimensional icons
 that mimic real-world counterparts, such as a magazine rack for the 
Newsstand app. They are replaced by larger, two-dimensional icons 
sporting abstract designs and pastel colors. Apple also extended that 
new look to many of its apps. In Maps, the green boxes are replaced with
 solid white across the top.It didn't take long to realize that deeper down, the new iOS 7 software is the same as the one I've come to know.The
 new software does have several functional improvements, but those take 
time to stumble upon. The good news is that even if you never discover 
them, you can still use your device the way you did before. The free 
update is available starting Wednesday.I'm covering the features 
specific to Apple's new iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c in a separate review. This one 
is about whether it makes sense to upgrade to iOS 7 on your existing 
iPhone or iPad.(Also see: Apple unveils iPhone 5c and iPhone 5s)The biggest functional change is the use of swipes
 instead of taps to access key functions. You can already swipe up from 
the bottom right side of the screen to quickly access the camera when 
your phone is locked. With iOS 7, you can also swipe up for the Control 
Center, which contains frequently used settings and apps. That's 
available whether or not the phone is locked.Swipe down from the 
top of the screen to get recent notifications and the day's highlights, 
including the weather, appointments, reminders and stock quotes. Swipe 
down from the center of any home screen for a search box. From many 
apps, you can swipe from the left or the right instead of tapping the 
left and right buttons.The Control Center is the most useful of the functional improvements.From
 there, you can turn Airplane Mode, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth on and off. 
Before, you had to find those switches in the settings. That would have 
come in handy for my flight to Silicon Valley last week for Apple's 
event introducing the new phones and software. Likewise, a Do Not 
Disturb feature is easier to access. It lets you silence incoming calls 
and messages, though you can make exceptions for certain numbers or for 
those calling repeatedly, in case there is a true emergency.The 
Control Center also lets you easily control music playback and adjust 
the screen's brightness. It gives you quick access to a flashlight 
feature, the clock, a calculator and camera. My only complaint: You 
can't pick the apps featured and replace the calculator, for instance, 
with Facebook or Gmail.I found the left and right swipes useful 
primarily within certain apps. In the Safari browser, I use it to return
 to the previous page. In Mail, I return to the list of messages after 
reading one. Again, these are all things I could do before with taps 
rather than swipes, but sometimes the swipe feels more natural.The
 new software also makes it easier to manage multiple apps at once. 
Double click on the home button to see all open apps, each represented 
by a large image showing the app's content rather than just an icon, as 
was the case before. Close an app by swiping the image up. In the past, 
you had to hold down an icon and hit the minus button.The Siri 
voice assistant is better, too. She sounds less robotic than she once 
did and can adopt a male voice. Siri is able to handle a greater range 
of commands, including adjusting settings and returning recent calls.The
 most useful change is the ability to edit voice commands. I asked Siri 
how the Nets did, but she heard me as Mets. Instead of having to repeat 
the phrase over and over until Siri got it right, I simply hit "tap to 
edit." Then again, maybe she's smarter than me: The Mets are in season, 
while the Nets don't start the regular season until Oct. 30.Specific apps that come with iOS are also improved, including theseThe Maps app offers voice navigation for walking directions, though it 
still lacks biking and transit directions, as Google offers. The 
background of maps now dims at night so the screen light doesn't 
distract drivers.Safari makes it easier to switch between open 
Web pages. Before, you got one page at a time and had to scroll through 
all to get to the last one. Now, all the open pages are presented like 
upright dominos, so that you can jump right away to one in the back.The Camera offers eight filters to tweak photos the way you would on 
Instagram. But with Camera, you see what your filtered photo would look 
like before snapping. You can now take square photos, perfect for 
Instagram. In addition, photos you take are automatically grouped by 
trip and other attributes, so they'll be easier to find and share later.The App Store offers suggestions based on your current location. I get 
an app for the American Museum of Natural History in New York when I'm a
 few blocks away, and apps for food delivery near my apartment in 
another neighborhood, where people with small kitchens don't cook.A
 new iTunes Radio service offers free Internet radio stations, with 
buttons to easily buy songs you like on iTunes. I got my fill of 80s 
music with a Hits of the '80s station. I can create new stations based 
on songs or artists I hear, and I can move a slider between hits and 
discovery, the latter for more obscure tunes. Sad to say, few of the 80s
 songs were obscure, but that's a reflection of my listening habits and 
not the software. Unless you pay for the $25-a-year iTunes Match 
service, you'll get about four ads an hour.Although I dismissed 
many of the changes as cosmetic, a few of them improve functionality. 
Gone are those familiar bars showing cellular signal strength. You see 
five dots instead. The idea is to create more space for actual content. 
In many apps, including Maps and Safari, menus automatically disappear 
until you need them again, again to leave more space for content.These
 are all nice touches that make upgrading well worth it, especially for 
something free. You don't necessarily need a new phone. iPhone 5c and iPhone 5s launch in pictures

Many of the changes in Apple's operating 
system for mobile devices are cosmetic. Gone are three-dimensional icons
 that mimic real-world counterparts, such as a magazine rack for the 
Newsstand app. They are replaced by larger, two-dimensional icons 
sporting abstract designs and pastel colors. Apple also extended that 
new look to many of its apps. In Maps, the green boxes are replaced with
 solid white across the top.

It didn't take long to realize that deeper down, the new iOS 7 software is the same as the one I've come to know.

The
 new software does have several functional improvements, but those take 
time to stumble upon. The good news is that even if you never discover 
them, you can still use your device the way you did before. The free 
update is available starting Wednesday.

I'm covering the features 
specific to Apple's new iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c in a separate review. This one 
is about whether it makes sense to upgrade to iOS 7 on your existing 
iPhone or iPad.

(Also see: Apple unveils iPhone 5c and iPhone 5s)

The biggest functional change is the use of swipes
 instead of taps to access key functions. You can already swipe up from 
the bottom right side of the screen to quickly access the camera when 
your phone is locked. With iOS 7, you can also swipe up for the Control 
Center, which contains frequently used settings and apps. That's 
available whether or not the phone is locked.

Swipe down from the 
top of the screen to get recent notifications and the day's highlights, 
including the weather, appointments, reminders and stock quotes. Swipe 
down from the center of any home screen for a search box. From many 
apps, you can swipe from the left or the right instead of tapping the 
left and right buttons.

The Control Center is the most useful of the functional improvements.

From
 there, you can turn Airplane Mode, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth on and off. 
Before, you had to find those switches in the settings. That would have 
come in handy for my flight to Silicon Valley last week for Apple's 
event introducing the new phones and software. Likewise, a Do Not 
Disturb feature is easier to access. It lets you silence incoming calls 
and messages, though you can make exceptions for certain numbers or for 
those calling repeatedly, in case there is a true emergency.

The 
Control Center also lets you easily control music playback and adjust 
the screen's brightness. It gives you quick access to a flashlight 
feature, the clock, a calculator and camera. My only complaint: You 
can't pick the apps featured and replace the calculator, for instance, 
with Facebook or Gmail.

I found the left and right swipes useful 
primarily within certain apps. In the Safari browser, I use it to return
 to the previous page. In Mail, I return to the list of messages after 
reading one. Again, these are all things I could do before with taps 
rather than swipes, but sometimes the swipe feels more natural.

The
 new software also makes it easier to manage multiple apps at once. 
Double click on the home button to see all open apps, each represented 
by a large image showing the app's content rather than just an icon, as 
was the case before. Close an app by swiping the image up. In the past, 
you had to hold down an icon and hit the minus button.

The Siri 
voice assistant is better, too. She sounds less robotic than she once 
did and can adopt a male voice. Siri is able to handle a greater range 
of commands, including adjusting settings and returning recent calls.

The
 most useful change is the ability to edit voice commands. I asked Siri 
how the Nets did, but she heard me as Mets. Instead of having to repeat 
the phrase over and over until Siri got it right, I simply hit "tap to 
edit." Then again, maybe she's smarter than me: The Mets are in season, 
while the Nets don't start the regular season until Oct. 30.

Specific apps that come with iOS are also improved, including these



The Maps app offers voice navigation for walking directions, though it 
still lacks biking and transit directions, as Google offers. The 
background of maps now dims at night so the screen light doesn't 
distract drivers.

Safari makes it easier to switch between open 
Web pages. Before, you got one page at a time and had to scroll through 
all to get to the last one. Now, all the open pages are presented like 
upright dominos, so that you can jump right away to one in the back.

The Camera offers eight filters to tweak photos the way you would on 
Instagram. But with Camera, you see what your filtered photo would look 
like before snapping. You can now take square photos, perfect for 
Instagram. In addition, photos you take are automatically grouped by 
trip and other attributes, so they'll be easier to find and share later.

The App Store offers suggestions based on your current location. I get 
an app for the American Museum of Natural History in New York when I'm a
 few blocks away, and apps for food delivery near my apartment in 
another neighborhood, where people with small kitchens don't cook.

A
 new iTunes Radio service offers free Internet radio stations, with 
buttons to easily buy songs you like on iTunes. I got my fill of 80s 
music with a Hits of the '80s station. I can create new stations based 
on songs or artists I hear, and I can move a slider between hits and 
discovery, the latter for more obscure tunes. Sad to say, few of the 80s
 songs were obscure, but that's a reflection of my listening habits and 
not the software. Unless you pay for the $25-a-year iTunes Match 
service, you'll get about four ads an hour.

Although I dismissed 
many of the changes as cosmetic, a few of them improve functionality. 
Gone are those familiar bars showing cellular signal strength. You see 
five dots instead. The idea is to create more space for actual content. 
In many apps, including Maps and Safari, menus automatically disappear 
until you need them again, again to leave more space for content.

These
 are all nice touches that make upgrading well worth it, especially for 
something free. You don't necessarily need a new phone.

