Strontium Nitro iDrive USB 3.0 Review: Good Ideas Implemented Badly

Since the very first iPhone came out over eight years ago, Apple has 
adamantly refused to let users manage their own storage. Not only has 
there never been support for storage expansion, but you are restricted 
from browsing through the contents of your device so you can at least 
see what's going on. The idea is that users never have to be faced with 
pointless choices about what goes where, and security barriers are more 
important than interoperability.Apple has not exactly been 
generous with storage, and most people buy base models with less space 
than they'd ideally like because of the high cost of stepping up. 16GB 
fills up very quickly when you take lots of photos and videos, or if you
 need lots of apps.Strontium is one of a few companies launching 
external modules that plug into iOS devices' Lightning ports for a 
storage boost. While the Nitro iDrive USB 3.0 looks and feels like a 
standard pen drive - especially the dual-connector ones now available 
for use with Android devices - you can't simply plug it to give your 
Apple device a magical storage boost. We're going to examine how it 
works and whether it is the solution you've always wanted.Look and feelThe
 Strontium Nitro iDrive USB 3.0 is a bit larger than the chunkiest pen 
drives available today. The front and back bulge outwards while the 
sides, top and bottom are flat. The two ends are capped with clear 
plastic removable lids, which seem like they'd be easy to lose track of.
 The edges and corners are extremely sharp - enough so that we scratched
 ourselves quite badly multiple times. The white plastic can also get 
slippery and so we weren't happy at all with the ergonomics.There's
 a Strontium logo on the front with the capacity printed below it in a 
needlessly large point size. A status LED shines red through the plastic
 in one corner when the drive is plugged in to a PC and blue when 
plugged in to an iOS device. The rear is a little more interesting - 
apart from the usual regulatory logos, there's a line saying "Powered by
 PhotoFast" which tells us that Strontium's product is pretty much 
identical to the PhotoFast i-Flash Drive. PhotoFast has been developing 
such drives for Apple devices since at least 2011 - the first model 
featured a 30-pin connector for older devices. When plugged into 
an iPhone or iPad, the Nitro iDrive will stick out quite conspicuously. 
That and its sharp edges make it hard to imagine using an iPhone with 
the Nitro iDrive plugged in all the time. It's awkward to hold and use 
devices with this block sticking out of them, especially when on the 
move. You're much better off using it to swap files onto your iPhone or 
iPad rather than leaving it plugged in. In that sense, you can't really 
use it to permanently add more storage space to your phone.  You'll
 also need to take your iPhone or iPad out of any cover it might be in, 
unless enough space around the Lightning port is exposed to accommodate 
the Nitro iDrive. The appApple forces iOS apps to stay 
within their own pools of storage, and there's no way to make them 
recognise files stored anywhere else. You can't browse the contents of 
your iPhone or iPad to find documents and then decide how they should be
 opened. That means the only way to access anything on the Strontium 
Nitro iDrive is through its own app. iOS accessories are allowed 
to prompt you to download an app (or launch it if you have it already), 
and that's what happens every time you plug the Nitro iDrive in. That 
saves you the trouble of searching through the App Store, which is good 
because the app in question is the one PhotoFast created for its own 
products. Searching for 'Strontium' won't bring up anything useful, 
which is not a surprise considering the iDrive itself is just a 
rebranded PhotoFast drive. The app isn't particularly well 
designed and we needed a little while to get used to it. For starters, 
it threw up a barrage of permission prompts upon the first use: it 
wanted to send notifications and access our calendar, contacts and 
photos. Seeing no reason it should be allowed to do any of these things,
 we declined. It was only later that we discovered that the app has 
modules for backing up photos, contacts and calendars.Icons and 
navigation cues are far from standard, leaving you guessing what to do 
quite often.  A lot of the screen is wasted on a huge graphic showing 
how much free space there is on your phone. If you swipe to the left, 
you'll see the same graphic for free space on the Nitro iDrive (when 
it's plugged in) which is more useful to know. Below that, there are 
icons for the various modules - sixteen in all, with very little 
functional organisation. In addition to the self-explanatory Music, 
Photo, Video and Documents, there's Recorder, Dropbox and Search. There 
are also individual icons for backing up contacts, photos and calendars,
 as well as another Backup All icon. The app can handle playback 
of most audio and video formats, and also display PDFs, PowerPoint 
presentations and Word documents (though Excel files failed for us). 
Within each content silo in the app is a toggle that switches the view 
between files stored on your device and content on the Nitro iDrive. You
 can copy files onto your iOS device so that you don't have the Nitro 
iDrive sticking out all the time - though that pretty much defeats its 
purpose. Even so, all files remain within the app - you can't add songs 
to the iOS Music app, for example. Given this limitation, there are 
dozens of other media player apps which are far easier to use and far 
more capable. The Personal Cloud module lets you connect to 
Google Drive, Facebook and Dropbox in order to access and copy data 
stored there - but there's also a Dropbox icon in the main list. 
Similarly, there are icons for In-App Storage and External Storage, 
showing you content in folders rather than sorted by media type. Buried 
within the Settings menu are options for data security and automatic 
synchronisation.The only reason we would use this app rather than
 an alternative media players is that the Nitro iDrive hardware lets you
 easily copy all kinds of files from a PC to your iOS device and vice 
versa. Other apps can only be used to store files on-device but only 
through iTunes or a Web browser. Other than that, it is simply too 
awkward and inconsistent.PerformanceWe tested the USB 
functionality of the Strontium Nitro iDrive with a desktop PC, and we 
also used it with an iPhone 5c, an iPhone 6, a fourth-generation iPad 
and an iPad Air 2. When plugged into the PC, it behaved just as any 
other USB storage device would. The Nitro iDrive needs to be formatted 
in FAT32 in order to be recognised by iOS.Despite the support for
 USB 3.0, raw speeds were just about okay. We recorded 90.48Mbps and 
84Mbps sequential and random read speeds respectively, while the same 
write speeds were 16.55Mbps and 7.1Mbps respectively. Trouble 
arose when we began using it with our iOS devices. For some reason, 
while all functions seemed to work perfectly on both iPads, the two 
iPhones couldn't recognise any content on it. They detected that the 
drive was plugged in, but reported it to be blank. The app allowed us to
 copy photos from the phones' camera rolls to the iDrive, create new 
files on it and even back up our information, but still couldn't 
recognise that content afterwards (though we could retrieve it normally 
through the iPads and PC). All test devices were running either iOS 8.2 
or 8.3 and no amount of restarting and updating had any effect.After
 corresponding with Strontium's technical staff for two days, the 
problem was identified. It turned out to have nothing to do with the 
type of iOS device used. A bug in the app affects how it recognises the 
time, which for some reason prevents files from being displayed. Devices
 set to display the time in 12-hour format will be affected, but those 
set to 24-hour can recognise the iDrive just fine. It seems ridiculous 
to us that such a bug should exist, but what's even worse is that the 
company had no clue about it even though the Nitro iDrive has been on 
sale for nearly three months.The version of the app we tested was
 1.3.8, and Strontium told us that an update has been submitted to the 
App Store. However, as of the publishing date of this review, there is 
no indication whatsoever to customers that they might encounter a 
problem this severe, and no mention of the awkward temporary workaround 
or the impending fix. There's no telling how many people have 
already bought a Nitro iDrive based on the features promised and have 
been unable to use it. It is therefore impossible for us to consider the
 Strontium Nitro iDrive a working product until the update is released. VerdictThe
 Strontium Nitro iDrive could work for you if you are willing to change 
your device's time display format. It's a good way to transfer files to 
and from your iPad or iPhone without the hassle of syncing through 
iTunes, and will come in handy for periodically backing up photos and 
personal information. However with no warning to buyers of the critical 
time format bug, we simply cannot recommend this product. There are 
alternatives in the market such as SanDisk's iXpand Flash Drive which we
 will test soon.If you do choose to buy one anyway, the Strontium
 Nitro iDrive is available in capacities of 16GB, 32GB and 64GB at 
street prices of Rs. 4,200, 5,000 and 6,200 respectively. Given the 
relatively minor price differences between them, it makes almost no 
sense to get the smallest one. However, considering that you can't 
actually expand your iOS device's storage space, it would actually be a 
viable alternative to pick up a low-cost Android phone such as the 
Xiaomi Redmi 2 (Review | Pictures) as a secondary device for entertainment. MicroSD cards 
are cheap and easily available, and today's entry-level phones can 
handle all kinds of audio and video files.Price (MRP): Rs. 5,145 (16GB); Rs. 6,195 (32GB); Rs. 7,245 (64GB)ProsExpands limited storage on iOS devicesLightweight and portableConsiOS limits file accessApp interface needs improvementCritical bug prevents use on devices with specific time display formatRatings (Out of 5)Design: 2Performance: 2.5Value for Money: 3Overall: 2.5

Since the very first iPhone came out over eight years ago, Apple has 
adamantly refused to let users manage their own storage. Not only has 
there never been support for storage expansion, but you are restricted 
from browsing through the contents of your device so you can at least 
see what's going on. The idea is that users never have to be faced with 
pointless choices about what goes where, and security barriers are more 
important than interoperability.

Apple has not exactly been 
generous with storage, and most people buy base models with less space 
than they'd ideally like because of the high cost of stepping up. 16GB 
fills up very quickly when you take lots of photos and videos, or if you
 need lots of apps.

Strontium is one of a few companies launching 
external modules that plug into iOS devices' Lightning ports for a 
storage boost. While the Nitro iDrive USB 3.0 looks and feels like a 
standard pen drive - especially the dual-connector ones now available 
for use with Android devices - you can't simply plug it to give your 
Apple device a magical storage boost. We're going to examine how it 
works and whether it is the solution you've always wanted.

Look and feelThe
 Strontium Nitro iDrive USB 3.0 is a bit larger than the chunkiest pen 
drives available today. The front and back bulge outwards while the 
sides, top and bottom are flat. The two ends are capped with clear 
plastic removable lids, which seem like they'd be easy to lose track of.
 The edges and corners are extremely sharp - enough so that we scratched
 ourselves quite badly multiple times. The white plastic can also get 
slippery and so we weren't happy at all with the ergonomics.

There's
 a Strontium logo on the front with the capacity printed below it in a 
needlessly large point size. A status LED shines red through the plastic
 in one corner when the drive is plugged in to a PC and blue when 
plugged in to an iOS device. The rear is a little more interesting - 
apart from the usual regulatory logos, there's a line saying "Powered by
 PhotoFast" which tells us that Strontium's product is pretty much 
identical to the PhotoFast i-Flash Drive. PhotoFast has been developing 
such drives for Apple devices since at least 2011 - the first model 
featured a 30-pin connector for older devices. 

When plugged into 
an iPhone or iPad, the Nitro iDrive will stick out quite conspicuously. 
That and its sharp edges make it hard to imagine using an iPhone with 
the Nitro iDrive plugged in all the time. It's awkward to hold and use 
devices with this block sticking out of them, especially when on the 
move. You're much better off using it to swap files onto your iPhone or 
iPad rather than leaving it plugged in. In that sense, you can't really 
use it to permanently add more storage space to your phone.  

You'll
 also need to take your iPhone or iPad out of any cover it might be in, 
unless enough space around the Lightning port is exposed to accommodate 
the Nitro iDrive. 

The appApple forces iOS apps to stay 
within their own pools of storage, and there's no way to make them 
recognise files stored anywhere else. You can't browse the contents of 
your iPhone or iPad to find documents and then decide how they should be
 opened. That means the only way to access anything on the Strontium 
Nitro iDrive is through its own app. 

iOS accessories are allowed 
to prompt you to download an app (or launch it if you have it already), 
and that's what happens every time you plug the Nitro iDrive in. That 
saves you the trouble of searching through the App Store, which is good 
because the app in question is the one PhotoFast created for its own 
products. Searching for 'Strontium' won't bring up anything useful, 
which is not a surprise considering the iDrive itself is just a 
rebranded PhotoFast drive.

 

The app isn't particularly well 
designed and we needed a little while to get used to it. For starters, 
it threw up a barrage of permission prompts upon the first use: it 
wanted to send notifications and access our calendar, contacts and 
photos. Seeing no reason it should be allowed to do any of these things,
 we declined. It was only later that we discovered that the app has 
modules for backing up photos, contacts and calendars.

Icons and 
navigation cues are far from standard, leaving you guessing what to do 
quite often.  A lot of the screen is wasted on a huge graphic showing 
how much free space there is on your phone. If you swipe to the left, 
you'll see the same graphic for free space on the Nitro iDrive (when 
it's plugged in) which is more useful to know. Below that, there are 
icons for the various modules - sixteen in all, with very little 
functional organisation. In addition to the self-explanatory Music, 
Photo, Video and Documents, there's Recorder, Dropbox and Search. There 
are also individual icons for backing up contacts, photos and calendars,
 as well as another Backup All icon. 

The app can handle playback 
of most audio and video formats, and also display PDFs, PowerPoint 
presentations and Word documents (though Excel files failed for us). 
Within each content silo in the app is a toggle that switches the view 
between files stored on your device and content on the Nitro iDrive. You
 can copy files onto your iOS device so that you don't have the Nitro 
iDrive sticking out all the time - though that pretty much defeats its 
purpose. Even so, all files remain within the app - you can't add songs 
to the iOS Music app, for example. Given this limitation, there are 
dozens of other media player apps which are far easier to use and far 
more capable. 

The Personal Cloud module lets you connect to 
Google Drive, Facebook and Dropbox in order to access and copy data 
stored there - but there's also a Dropbox icon in the main list. 
Similarly, there are icons for In-App Storage and External Storage, 
showing you content in folders rather than sorted by media type. Buried 
within the Settings menu are options for data security and automatic 
synchronisation.

The only reason we would use this app rather than
 an alternative media players is that the Nitro iDrive hardware lets you
 easily copy all kinds of files from a PC to your iOS device and vice 
versa. Other apps can only be used to store files on-device but only 
through iTunes or a Web browser. Other than that, it is simply too 
awkward and inconsistent.

PerformanceWe tested the USB 
functionality of the Strontium Nitro iDrive with a desktop PC, and we 
also used it with an iPhone 5c, an iPhone 6, a fourth-generation iPad 
and an iPad Air 2. When plugged into the PC, it behaved just as any 
other USB storage device would. The Nitro iDrive needs to be formatted 
in FAT32 in order to be recognised by iOS.

Despite the support for
 USB 3.0, raw speeds were just about okay. We recorded 90.48Mbps and 
84Mbps sequential and random read speeds respectively, while the same 
write speeds were 16.55Mbps and 7.1Mbps respectively. 

Trouble 
arose when we began using it with our iOS devices. For some reason, 
while all functions seemed to work perfectly on both iPads, the two 
iPhones couldn't recognise any content on it. They detected that the 
drive was plugged in, but reported it to be blank. The app allowed us to
 copy photos from the phones' camera rolls to the iDrive, create new 
files on it and even back up our information, but still couldn't 
recognise that content afterwards (though we could retrieve it normally 
through the iPads and PC). All test devices were running either iOS 8.2 
or 8.3 and no amount of restarting and updating had any effect.

After
 corresponding with Strontium's technical staff for two days, the 
problem was identified. It turned out to have nothing to do with the 
type of iOS device used. A bug in the app affects how it recognises the 
time, which for some reason prevents files from being displayed. Devices
 set to display the time in 12-hour format will be affected, but those 
set to 24-hour can recognise the iDrive just fine. It seems ridiculous 
to us that such a bug should exist, but what's even worse is that the 
company had no clue about it even though the Nitro iDrive has been on 
sale for nearly three months.

The version of the app we tested was
 1.3.8, and Strontium told us that an update has been submitted to the 
App Store. However, as of the publishing date of this review, there is 
no indication whatsoever to customers that they might encounter a 
problem this severe, and no mention of the awkward temporary workaround 
or the impending fix. 

There's no telling how many people have 
already bought a Nitro iDrive based on the features promised and have 
been unable to use it. It is therefore impossible for us to consider the
 Strontium Nitro iDrive a working product until the update is released. 

VerdictThe
 Strontium Nitro iDrive could work for you if you are willing to change 
your device's time display format. It's a good way to transfer files to 
and from your iPad or iPhone without the hassle of syncing through 
iTunes, and will come in handy for periodically backing up photos and 
personal information. However with no warning to buyers of the critical 
time format bug, we simply cannot recommend this product. There are 
alternatives in the market such as SanDisk's iXpand Flash Drive which we
 will test soon.

If you do choose to buy one anyway, the Strontium
 Nitro iDrive is available in capacities of 16GB, 32GB and 64GB at 
street prices of Rs. 4,200, 5,000 and 6,200 respectively. Given the 
relatively minor price differences between them, it makes almost no 
sense to get the smallest one. However, considering that you can't 
actually expand your iOS device's storage space, it would actually be a 
viable alternative to pick up a low-cost Android phone such as the 
Xiaomi Redmi 2 (Review | Pictures) as a secondary device for entertainment. MicroSD cards 
are cheap and easily available, and today's entry-level phones can 
handle all kinds of audio and video files.



Cons

Ratings (Out of 5)

